Mission Statement:
To provide service opportunities to club members within the school and at events throughout the city.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Volunteers are not required to attend a minimum number of events; they may sign up for events on any day or time and at any location throughout the city. Events are typically on weekends throughout the entire school year; however, SRC also occasionally offers volunteering opportunities after school.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Red Cross (SRC) is a volunteer club that provides hundreds of service opportunities for all of its members throughout the entire year. As one of the biggest clubs at Stuyvesant, SRC seeks to connect people with their community and help them give back in the most convenient way. Members aren't required to volunteer. Rather, they can sign up for the event of their choice on any day in any location throughout the city. Within Stuyvesant, volunteers have been tour guides at Open Houses, assisted teachers during Parent-Teacher-Conferences, and helped run the Alumni Association's reunion events. SRC also hosts the popular and informational annual Health Fair and holds fun bonding events for members, such as Friendsmas. However, SRC also wants volunteers to expand their influences and networks beyond the walls of Stuyvesant. Thus, volunteers have refereed for wheelchair basketball tournaments, raised money for international, national and local disasters, and participated in walks and races. Finally, the club aims to provide numerous opportunities for its members to bond through volunteering and make new friends while contributing to the community.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant Red Cross (SRC) benefits the Stuyvesant community by offering its services to different facets spread throughout New York City, whether it be in museums, at parks for clean-ups and races, or at children's centers. In doing so, not only are volunteers helping the external community, exposing themselves to the different areas of the city, and spreading the SRC mission, but students are also offered the chance to give back and feel a sense of community among other New Yorkers -- Stuyvesant and non-Stuyvesant students alike. At events, many Stuyvesant students are in situations where they must engage in teamwork, allowing for new friendships to be forged. This allows the Stuyvesant body to grow even more tight-knit as a community. The club also teaches its members that volunteering is a wonderful act of kindness that can be returned through the simplest of ways, often through a smile or a verbal expression of gratitude. Members can also contribute directly to the Stuyvesant community, as Red Cross provides opportunities to volunteer as tour guides at school Open Houses, assist teachers at Parent-Teacher Conferences, manage Alumni Association events, and volunteer at the multiple blood drives held in school. SRC receives no physical token in return, allowing volunteers to help purely for the sake of community service. In this sense, SRC is looking to help Stuyvesant students extract their inner kindness and apply it to humanitarian causes and the real world.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leaders are appointed through review of their applications to the board, which are done through a written application followed by a formal interview with the board. Once a member is accepted as a leader, they will remain as a trial leader until the end of the trial period. During the trial period, they are expected to learn the duties of a board leader, which include sending events emails, contacting coordinators, organizing in-school events, and other tasks that involve managing the club as a whole. If trial leaders fail to complete these duties or fail to maintain a good academic standing (85+ overall average), they will be given a strike. If trial leaders receive three strikes, they may be impeached from the board. After the trial period, leaders are officially part of the board. All board leaders (including trial leaders) may apply for a position on the executive board, which consists of three Vice Presidents and two co-presidents. The previous executive board reviews their applications and conducts interviews in order to determine the next executive board. Both leaders and volunteers are expected to uphold the mission of the American Red Cross as members of Stuyvesant Red Cross.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant Red Cross (SRC) is open to anyone who wants to positively influence their community. Students can join at any time of the year and they can dedicate as much time as they would like to the club. SRC is affiliated with the American Red Cross (ARC), meaning volunteers receive special access to ARC events and the ability to be a part of a larger network in Greater NYC (i.e. the annual International Humanitarian Law Campaign, the Pillowcase Project, CPR lessons, events at the GNY Headquarters, and more!). SRC focuses on contributing to larger relief efforts and spreading awareness on current humanitarian events/disasters throughout the world, which volunteers can get involved with through these special ARC projects. At the end of every year, SRC hosts an Awards Ceremony to commemorate volunteers who have reached over 20 hours, which special certificates. In addition to receiving certificates, SRC also rewards volunteers with a fun party filled with pizza, snacks, and music after the awards distribution. If would like to be a member of a larger community and contribute to important causes, then Stuyvesant Red Cross is the place for you!

