Mission Statement:
The goal of the Stuyvesant Physics Team is to expose the members to numerous fields of physics and prepare them for physics competitions.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The Physics Team will meet once a week for each group: Wednesday for team Newton, and Thursdays for team Einstein.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The club’s primary goal is to expose its members to a variety of topics in physics for either competitive or research purposes. Since physics is taught later on in the Stuyvesant science curriculum, the club hopes to give eager students a chance to be introduced to the subject earlier on so they have more time to either compete or delve further into physics research topics by the time others are taking introductory physics in their junior year.

The Stuyvesant Physics Team also wishes to make the F=ma a more relevant competition in Stuyvesant, with more USAPhO qualifiers as a result. This will help increase Stuy’s reputation as a competitive school by expanding into a different field.

The club would like to teach at a variety of difficulty levels to accommodate more members. In the end, the Stuyvesant Physics Team wants its members to be familiar with various physics concepts when they choose to explore them at a deeper level in high school or college. The club hopes to help students have a leg up in more advanced physics classes and be more enthusiastic about physics.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant Physics Team serves students who want to be ahead in their future physics classes and learn more than what is taught in a regular class. The club believes that the Physics Team will also help the students learn about a topic they might be interested in studying further in the future. Mechanics and E&M, along with topics like thermodynamics, quantum mechanics, etc., are all helpful in their pursuit of physics. The club also hopes to get students ready for competitions like F=ma and PUPC. Through these competitions, students not only gain exposure to higher-level physics problems but also build a community through their teams and learn how to work together. Physics competitions also serve as a way to improve problem solving, forcing students to apply what they've learned in creative ways. If a student starts attending this club as a freshman or sophomore, they will have an edge in these competitions and can start performing well a year or two before their classmates. This earlier access to physics can also increase the chance of a student doing well enough on a physics competition to put it on their resumes/college applications. It is harder for students to manage these contests, especially ones like the IPhO, as they head into junior and senior year, so starting off early could be very beneficial.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There are 3-4 captains in any given year, and one is removed either when they graduate or when they leave the club. The remaining captains will choose a new captain by interviewing members of the club who show interest in obtaining a leadership position. They will be selected based on their organizational ability and proficiency in physics. In the case where all 3-4 captains graduate in the same year, all new captains are chosen in the same way before graduation. Additional assistant captains acting as student teachers will be elected if needed through an application process. If impeachment is necessary, a vote will be held among all members of the team, where a majority decides the vote. All members and captains are expected to regularly attend meetings and contribute positively to the physics community within Stuyvesant. It is recommended that all students take the F=ma in February. The students are expected to follow the directions of the captains or assistant captains.

What makes this activity unique?:
The community for students interested in physics at Stuyvesant is too underdeveloped. Our organization offers a fun, pressure free starting point for many that might be interested in physics, and a tight knit community for students that are already interested. All students can work together and learn from each other throughout the lessons and competitions. Stuyvesant Physics Team offers students a unique opportunity to tackle complex physics concepts away from the stresses of Stuyvesant school life.

