Mission Statement:
The Stuy Social Lens is publication for student-written work in historical research, current events, and every social studies topic in between!

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will not have many synchronous meetings and will largely communicate with writers via email. However, all participants should expect at least one meeting where the publishing process will be explained, decided by member availability.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuy Social Lens accepts student submissions - including essays, research papers, and articles - within the scope of social sciences! The typical journal publishing process is difficult and rarely open to teenagers, so any student who wishes to get their work out there in both a magazine and digital format will find a space in this publication. Writers will submit their work to our initial application, work with our editorial board supervised by the Social Studies Department to polish their writing, and ultimately see their work published in our annual (and this year, inaugural) issue. These works may be written specifically for the publication or may be assignments from social studies classes. 
For students more inclined towards shorter writing and current events updates, Stuy Social Lens will also accept articles to its website (coming by the end of 2023) which is also seen by the Social Studies Department. These writers will consist of both our leadership and students who submit their ideas to the Google Form linked on the website & social media.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant Social Lens is a special student publication organization that offers its members an array of opportunities to develop various skills and gain unique experiences and the school community a channel to showcase their social science works. As a member of the organization, students will have the opportunity to develop their leadership skills through leading a variety of projects. Additionally, members can build their confidence and enhance their teamwork skills by collaborating with peers within the Stuyvesant community. Members will also be able to learn about the intricate process of literature publication and actively engage in its process. Such participation allows club members to broaden their understanding of media and its impact on society. Moreover, they can contribute to the publication by reviewing submitted literature, which further enriches their global perspective. Students will be able to work closely with faculty members of the social studies department and play essential roles in writing and editing papers that will be published within the school community, displaying their skills and contributing to the intellectual discussions between peers within the school community and helping members develop strong writing skills. All in all, the Stuyvesant Social Lens serves as a student-led publication organization that fosters an extraordinary environment for students to explore social science beyond their classrooms.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Club leaders are appointed through applications submitted to the board. Following the application, a formal interview would be held with the board. Upon acceptance to their position(s), leaders will be expected to undergo a trainee period, during which they are expected to learn and become proficient in the duties of their position(s). Failure to meet these expectations will be given a strike, up to a total of three before they would be officially impeached and removed from office. If the trainees remain in good standing throughout their trainee period, they will be admitted to the board upon the termination of the trainee period. All leaders are eligible to apply for executive board positions, and all club members are eligible to apply for the leader board.* * All applicants must be in good academic standing at the time of the application period to be eligible to apply for any positions on the leader board and/or the executive board.

What makes this activity unique?:
This publication will be the official publication of the Social Studies Department, making it the first of its kind in decades, and will serve as one of the few spaces where high school students may publish their work. The editorial board seeks to accept as many viable articles/papers as possible and will work with students to polish their work. This is a welcoming space for all social studies enthusiasts at Stuyvesant, uniquely creating a collection of their work into one space.

