Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Philharmonic is a completely student-run band that’s all about having fun and bonding through music.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will be about once a week, but as we get closer to concerts and performances, we will be meeting up to two to three times a week.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Philharmonic will allow students opportunities to both play in and lead a band. This band will be entirely student run and led. Students will experience what it is like to write for and lead a musical group, and the semantics involved in large scale productions and writing for multiple parts. All students will have the opportunity to arrange and compose pieces of their choice with the help of the leadership, and present them to be played by the band. Students who want it will receive instruction in composition and arranging, including guidance on methods, strategy, procedure, software, and instrumentation. Although the students who join the club will be experienced musicians who can competently play their instruments, they likely have never had any exposure to the concept of writing or arranging their own music, to be led by them. This means that this band will give them the opportunity to explore an entirely new side of music. For everyone that doesn’t want to arrange music, they will all still play instruments as a part of our band.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant Philharmonic will benefit the Stuyvesant Community by giving the musicians among it an opportunity to make friends and play together for fun, rather than as a class or for educational purposes. It will give students a place to relax and play music simply for the joy that it brings, to enjoy the company of other musicians and feel what it’s like to arrange and lead their own music. Musicians bond over making music, and this would be an ideal environment for musically inclined students to make friends and strong social connections, while also increasing their musical abilities. While it is true that our members will be already accomplished musicians, this band will highlight the aspect of music more important that technicality and skill: enjoyment and spreading feeling through the music that is played. 
Secondly, this club will reveal to students a previously unseen part of music, creating and arranging their own music. Arranging and composing music is a new experience for even the most talented musicians, and given that they are willing to try out the experience, having guidance can make the process much smoother. Additionally, this club might inspire those musicians who hadn’t even considered creating their own music an opportunity to try it out. 
Last but not least, the Stuyvesant Philharmonic will provide a place with musicians of all experience levels to imrpove and make new friends. Musicians are often given the stereotype of introverts that practice their music all day in their own rooms, but having a student-led, judgement free band will be a great place for not only these musicians, but these students to grow as people.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Stuyvesant Philharmonic will have two Presidents, who stay in presidency until their graduation or impeachment. A month before the Presidents are ready to graduate, they will appoint through application two other students who they believe have contributed and shown dedication to the club, and are skilled at composition and arranging so that they can teach other students as well and write pieces for the band to play. This one month grace period will be important in the transitioning the next leaders. The previous Presidents must teach these appointees on how to carry on the club in the following years. The same one month grace period holds true for the members of the Executive Board, consisting of the Vice President, a Secretary, and one or two Arrangers. We will have a Vice President that acts as the chief adviser to the presidents, mainly working on logistics and keeping track of the atmosphere of the band. Since the Vice President will also play an instrument as a part of the band, they will get the best sense of how the Presidents are leading, making sure to suggest adjustments when needed to help the band run smoothly for all players. In addition, the band will require a secretary to handle paperwork and correspondence, to correspond with the Music Department and Administration to schedule concerts, expositions, and possibly instruction from one of the Music Teachers.  Lastly, 1 or 2 experienced and talented arrangers will work with the Presidents and assist members who might want to arrange their own music. All positions will be applications will be Google Forms that will be submitted and completed. Musicians who show leadership and collaboration will be sought for leadership positions. If a member of the Executive Board is deemed unfit for the role, an anonymous voting procedure will be put in place, open to all members of the Philharmonic.

What makes this activity unique?:
Although various bands and orchestras exist, none of those provide their members the opportunity to enjoy music making in a completely student led and judgment free zone. Having a more relaxed club rather than classes that have teachers will encourage players to join because of its lower commitment and satisfaction that’s not just for a grade. Playing pieces that band members want to play and have created or arranged themselves, and allowing a feeling of togetherness and fun to foster are other ways that separate us from school bands. We are also unique from the SMA since we focus on playing, and fostering a sense of community within a band rather than learning and teaching various instruments.  The experience that this club’s leaders and potential members went through as part of SING! Band was a revolutionary feeling, one of a band that can put forth a stellar performance, but also knows to have fun and make the focus not educational, but entertaining and mentally relaxing. As directors of SophFrosh SING’s band, we’ve experienced firsthand how impactful a band can have on friendships and bonds you build. Bringing together all different types of instruments in a single band will create long lasting relationships and innovation in music.

