Mission Statement:
We strive to develop a community where members can explore careers in medicine and learn about medicine with others in an engaging way!

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, but we plan to meet 1-2 times a month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant's Pre-Health Shadowing Club is a chapter of a larger, virtual Pre-Health Shadowing program. During meetings, we'll explore different careers in medicine, from internal medicine to dentistry, pharmacy, nursing, research, and more. Meetings will generally be centered around a pre-recorded shadowing session with a health professional (e.g. MD, Ph.D., DDS, EMT, PA), and as a group, we will take a look at what a career in a respective field is like. We will also break down case studies (often with associated imaging and lab values) by taking a look at the anatomical and physiological aspects of the study and any other related biological concepts. We will also analyze the patient's history (complaints, past medical disorders, etc.) as well as any provided imaging (MRI scans, CT scans, X-rays, etc.) and test results (i.e. lab values) that are available. The club will also support members who are interested in medicine/biology through lessons associated with the case studies.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Pre-Health Shadowing Club is an opportunity for anyone that might be in any way interested in pursuing a career in health, and it is also a way to share your interests and passion with the rest of the club. Members will be able to hear stories and opinions from real health professionals about what a day in the life of a medical professional in a certain medical field is like. We will also have lessons on different biological concepts to develop a background before we take a deep dive into real case studies presented by various health professionals. Such supplemental lessons will help foster members’ interest in medicine/biology, acting as a means of both absorbing new information and reinforcing previously-learned concepts that build upon focal ideas present in case studies covered in our meetings. Through extensive analysis of individual case studies, members will gain a better understanding of how to approach a case study and will be able to develop critical problem-solving skills involved in interpreting such case studies and the relevant biology behind them. Additionally, since the club offers the opportunity for members to hear from health professionals about their careers and experiences, members will gain a better understanding of what a career in health really looks like and if such a career is something that sparks their interest.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Appointment and impeachment are to be decided by a consensus among board members. Any members interested in joining the board will be given an interview along with prepared questions (likely as a Google form) from the current board. We mainly want to get to know the candidates through the interview process and questionnaire. Ultimately, factors such as attendance, dedication, contribution, enthusiasm, and leadership ability will play a role in the appointment procedure. Appointment interviews will take place at the beginning of the semester/school year given, of course, that there are vacant positions on the board that need to be filled. Impeachment will be considered based on board members’ behavior and any rising concerns within the club. Board members are expected to maintain good attendance, participation, and responsibility with respect to their roles in the club (i.e. the head of communications would be expected to notify members of upcoming meetings and to encourage attendance/participation). If a member falls short of upholding their responsibilities in the club, a discussion/vote will be held among board members for possible impeachment.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club is a chapter of a larger virtual Pre-Health Shadowing Program that spans different schools. Through the Pre-Health Shadowing program, the club has access to over 100 virtual shadowing sessions with real health professionals. The club at Stuyvesant serves as an opportunity for those possibly interested in a health profession to learn more about possible careers. Additionally, the club offers a supportive learning opportunity as we analyze case studies (which can otherwise be dense with medical jargon and new concepts). With this club, we hope to encourage those interested in a career in medicine/research by offering a convenient and engaging place to learn about medicine.

