Mission Statement:
The Metis Project is an enrichment service focused on providing free tutoring to various communities in NYC.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The meeting schedule varies from department to department. Club-wide meetings will take place once a month, typically on Wednesdays.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Metis Project provides free and engaging learning services for families in NYC. It hopes to create and provide a comfortable environment for students to learn and bond with their tutors. The Metis Project offers a variety of classes and class structures to ensure that students get the most out of the program. In the coming school year, The Metis Project will continue to provide general assistance and subject-specific lessons for families that sign up. Depending on their preferences and availability, tutors and tutees will be sorted into individual or group classes. Tutors will work virtually and are expected to meet with tutees according to their designated class times. Although lesson plans aren’t required, they are recommended. Lesson plans created by previous tutors are accessible to all tutors and can be borrowed as tutors see fit. The Metis Project hosts English, Math, Science, Social Studies, SHSAT, HCHSE, Art Basics, ESL, Read Aloud, Chess, Puzzles & Riddles, and Coding classes taught to K-8th graders. 9th-grade subjects are occasionally offered in exceptional circumstances. It also offers general tutoring and homework help services throughout the school year.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Metis Project initially only offered summer tutoring, as it granted both tutors and tutees time to prepare for and attend the sessions. However, as of September 2022, The Metis Project also offers tutoring during the school year. Fall tutoring focuses on providing academic support for students, whether through the form of general classes or specific classes. Based on the tutees’ wants, tutors can guide tutees through their homework or choose to teach new material to advance tutees’ understanding of certain subjects. As tutor-tutee pairings are based on both parties’ availability and preferences, The Metis Project will provide tutors and tutees with invaluable volunteering and learning experiences respectively without hindering their schedules and other commitments. Although The Metis Project includes tutors from various other high schools, The Metis Project offers this opportunity to Stuyvesant students to improve their accountability, leadership, and professionalism through giving back to their communities. Additionally, tutors will be able to hone their communication skills as well as deepen their understanding of certain subjects by working with younger students and explaining topics in an easily comprehensible manner. Tutoring is a greatly beneficial experience, for tutees, who receive assistance in a comfortable learning environment, and also for tutors, who grow along with their tutees while gaining valuable skills such as communication and professionalism.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Metis Project has one president, two vice presidents (who make up the cabinet), department heads for each subject, webmasters, social media managers, activity managers, and admins. All members who hold leadership positions are collectively called “admins.” The procedure for applying to a leadership position is to first complete a tutor application and interview to become a tutor as being a tutor is required to become an admin. The prospective admin would then fill out the admin application form and attend an admin interview. If they pass the interview, they would be given the trial admin role. Those who display proactive work and dedication to the program would then be promoted to full-fledged admin status if they pass admin evaluations. Admin evaluations are carried out by the presidents after approximately a month since the trial admins were invited to the team. The President will be decided by the previous year's Vice Presidents and President. Vice Presidents will be determined when the ones in said position resign/impeached. As The Metis Project is to be run by high school students, the positions will determine their successors before they leave for higher education/work.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Metis Project fosters a community of tutors from various high schools around NYC and connects them. As a student-run organization, it is solely run by students, and this allows them to add their flair. As The Metis Project is based on one on one tutoring and pairing is done based on both tutor and tutee preferences, tutors are free to teach as they like, and when they like, to better suit the tutee. We offer curriculums for our classes, but we offer great flexibility in how lessons are conducted, allowing tutors to be as creative as they like.

