Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Boys Lacrosse Club aims to help members improve in and grow the sport of lacrosse.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will try to meet 1-2 times every week, weather permitting, usually on Wednesdays or Fridays. We understand that it is sometimes tough to find time during the school year so attendance is not mandatory.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Boys Lacrosse Club’s purpose is to create a place where newcomers and returning players alike can come together to improve in the sport of lacrosse. Our goal is to teach anyone willing to learn the game and prepare them so that they are able to join the PSAL boy's varsity lacrosse team in the spring season, even if they have absolutely no experience in the sport or any sports. Our goal is to bring a larger audience to the underappreciated sport of lacrosse and to grow the sport as a whole. Throughout the year, we will be teaching everything from the complete basics to advanced strategies and plays. Our practices will include team building and leadership activities which will help our players improve on the field and change their lives off the field. In addition, we will review lacrosse game footage from the NCAA and the PLL which will build game IQ among players of all skill levels and offer an alternative way to enjoy lacrosse. Our aim is not only to play lacrosse but to learn about its history and origins. Lacrosse was invented by the Native Americans, and we want players to learn about and celebrate Native American culture.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will benefit Stuyvesant by providing students a means of accessing such an underappreciated sport when they otherwise would be unable to. It will also greatly improve the quality of the varsity teams and lead to more victories. The season starts in the spring, so having students train and practice this early on would give our teams an edge, especially with the new recruits. Lacrosse is not a sport easily mastered without guidance, as the equipment isn't readily available and not many opportunities exist outside of school for this sport. Thus, there is no other way to appeal to new, inexperienced players and make sure they are able to compete. Additionally, this will provide an opportunity for current members of the team to practice and sharpen up their skills prior to the season starting, and gives a chance for them to bond with new potential teammates. All of these reasons will not only improve the lacrosse teams at Stuy but also make the school a better place. This sport is also a celebration of Native American culture and a way to commemorate their heritage through lacrosse. Students will benefit from learning about the history of lacrosse and its origins. Having students involved in sports and trying different things is what Stuyvesant is about, and giving the students the opportunity to really try something new and interesting will make for a far happier student body.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leaders of Stuyvesant Boys Lacrosse Club will be the captains/ junior captains of the PSAL boys varsity lacrosse team. Captains are chosen at the start/ end of each spring season and are selected either by the coach of the team or by the other members of the team. Leaders of the club must maintain their spot on the active PSAL roster, and if for any reason they become ineligible, inactive, or suspended from the team, then they will be removed from their role as leader, this is to ensure their continued commitment to the sport. Leaders must maintain good standings and have experience in lacrosse. Leaders are also expected to contribute towards forming drills, creating film and strategy plans, and actively attending and participating in any club activities. Everyone is welcome and all members are expected to treat everyone with respect and work towards fostering a positive environment. The returning PSAL players are expected to put in extra work to create a welcoming and helpful learning environment for any newcomers.

What makes this activity unique?:
Despite being the oldest sport in America, lacrosse is rarely talked about or even acknowledged except at the college level. Thus, making it harder to find opportunities to play since even college club programs are very competitive. We try to shrink that skill gap by combining on-field experience with in-depth film and strategy review sessions; we provide everyone a chance to learn, play, and enjoy the sport. We also would like to acknowledge the history of the game by implementing old traditions in different points, like handmade wooden lacrosse sticks. There are also the many different styles of play that were at their peak in the mid-1900s which are a fresh aspect in the modern game.

