Mission Statement:
StuyReol aims to provide students interested in taking the International Research Olympiad a place to gather and hone their abilties as researchers.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Thursday, Wednesday, Tuesday, Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, we will meet at least once a month. During months leading up to the IRO, the number of meetings will definetely increase in preparation for the competion. We will try to place the meeting days on the most accessable times.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Research Olympiad club aims to prepare students for the International Research Olympiad and hone the analytical and critical thinking skills of student researchers. Our goal is to introduce as many students to scientific research. During the months and weeks leading up to the competition, meetings will generally be centered on preparation for the competition. Meetings are generally meant to improve the skills of students in the field of scientific research. Skills can include but isn't limited to: the analysis of research papers, data aquisition, analytical and critical thinking, and a deeper understanding of the scientific process. Additionally, during the offseason the club will focus on the discussion of research and highschool opportunities. Members are encouraged to show up to meetings. Members are expected to show up with a learning ready attitude and be respectful and collaborative. Competition Prep meeting will generally be mock exam reviews and team discussions. Other meetings can range from lectures, STEM games, or member created presentations.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant Research Olympiad club or StuyReol benefits the Stuyvesant community by providing students a place to gather and hone their abilities as researchers. Students interested in taking the IRO (International Research Olympiad) should find this a helpful club for preparation. The IRO is a relatively new competition built of the basis of cultivating a new generation of scientists. StuyReol allows students to prepare through the reviewing of mock tests and collaborative team discussions over problems. Students will learn to analyse scientific research papers, which is a skill needed for the International Research Olympiad, but also necessary for research internships and of the sort. The Stuyvesant Research Olympiad encourages students to build skills that will prove useful in any research discipline, fostering a deeper understanding of the scientific process and research. Allowing students to improve and build upon overall creativity, critical thinking skills, analysis, problem solving, forming a strong foundation for future success.  The goal is to introduce as many students to scientific research, this club will foster the passion for STEM among the Stuyvesant community. Scientific Student Research is a strong activity viewed by colleges and universities among the nation. Allowing students to hone their abilities in the realm of reseach will strengthen their college resumes.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Stuyvesant Research Olympiad will appoint leadership roles to oversee the general maintaince of the club or on their abilities to teach and assist others. Appointment to a position within the club will be granted based on the experience, skills, and willingness to contribute and build onto the community. More and more positions will be created and opened as the club develops and grows. These positions will be open to all freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors, and will be granted based on the criteria listed above. Though, preferences may be given to those who have contributed more to the club in the past. Leaders and positions will be expected to be able to communicate effectively with each other. The leadership team will meet together and discuss upon which candidates will fill up or replace the positions of leaving club members. Selected candidates will be trained by the current holder of the position to gain experience and to be evaluated on their ability to uphold the position. If a leader or a position-holder doesn't meet their expectations and duties, they may be removed or suspended from their position and the rest of the leadership team will decide on a replacement. Leaders will usually keep their positions between school years, unless removal is needed.

What makes this activity unique?:
The International Research Olympiad is a newly created Olympiad. The Stuyvesant Research Olympiad club is the only club that prepares students for the competition. We provide a place that allows students to hone their research skills and abilities. Students will have opportunities to learn and build upon research and analytical skills in an encouraging community filled with students willing to help each other out. Students can utilize and translate the skills they've earned and built into real world opporntunties.

