Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Filipino Club aims to foster a positive and welcoming community for both Filipinos and non-Filipinos to celebrate the culture.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies depending on school-sanctioned events and testing, but we will meet at least twice a month (typically on Thursdays), with a special event such as a charity concert or karaoke night at least once a month. Attendance is not mandatory, but is much appreciated!

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Filipino Club aims to promote cultural appreciation for the Philippines through weekly meetings and occasional community events, such as showcases and cultural dinners. Weekly meetings will be held to educate members about various aspects of Filipino culture, provide a space to interact with new people, and give members opportunities to participate in fun activities connected to the culture. For example, club members will try Filipino food, review and have discussions about Filipino media, and learn about the Filipino languages and dialects together. Stuyvesant Filipino Club aims to hold charity concerts in order to raise funds for underprivileged schools and/or disaster relief in the Philippines. Members will be given a chance to perform for the showcase or assist in the production aspect. Participation in these events are not strictly required, but highly encouraged to create an enjoyable experience for club members. Although Stuyvesant does not have a large Filipino population, Stuyvesant Filipino Club hopes to create a safe space to create new friendships and embrace Filipino heritage.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Immigrants from the Philippines comprise the second largest immigrant group in the United States. However, the Filipino population within Stuyvesant is still quite small. The Philippines is a country with thousands of different islands, dialects, and experiences to offer. In this space, Stuyvesant Filipino Community offers an open door to create conversations for Filipinos to meet others that might understand them and their experiences, and to share these experiences with members that may just be interested in the culture! Introducing Filipino media and language to Stuyvesant’s community on a larger scale as an official club will foster a better understanding of the culture for students, as well as a direct means for FIlipino-American students to connect with their roots. Filipinos are slowly making its way into mainstream western media with artists such as beabadoobee, Grent Perez, and Zack Tabudlo, and influencers like Bretman Rock. Stuyvesant Filipino Club intends to create a space in which students can experience and appreciate this evolving Filipino-American culture together. Stuyvesant Filipino club will collaborate with Filipino clubs in other NYC high schools to provide the highest quality events to students for a comprehensive cultural experience. Being a Filipino-American student in Stuyvesant is a unique experience, and Stuyvesant Filipino Club aims to celebrate our differences and share it with others.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Stuyvesant Filipino Club currently has two co-presidents. In order to instate new leadership, the current leaders will ask members of the club for interest in the leadership position near the end of the school year. Interested members will then be asked to participate in an interview in which they answer a few questions about their experience in the club, their ideas to help better it, and how they would feasibly achieve these goals. Based on these answers and a short interview, current leaders will choose the candidates they best see fit for the position. During the transition of leadership positions between school years, current club leaders will assist the newly appointed in organizing meetings and events to ensure that the new leaders are prepared for the year ahead. If necessary, discussions will be had among leaders and the members of the club to discuss a leader’s removal from their position due to inappropriate behavior or excessive absence.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant Filipino Club is a unique space because it is curated specifically for those who appreciate Filipino culture and are willing to learn more about it. In addition to its historical richness, a big part of Filipino-American culture is the love for singing and performing, which is incorporated into many aspects of the club. Stuyvesant Filipino Club aims to respond to its members’ topics of interests in order to create a space that is both engaging and educational.

