Mission Statement:
Stuy Advice Column aspires to create a community where students can share their troubles and request for advice in an open and accepting environment.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Stuy Advice Column will meet either biweekly or monthly on Mondays or Fridays, depending on the availability of our members and the amount of requests for advice we receive.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The aim of Stuy Advice Column is to provide a space for students to ask for advice and receive help without judgement. Members of the club are expected to respond to questions with the best interest of the person who asked for advice in mind as well as to reply in a kindhearted manner. They should also not be rude to or mock any of the other members. Although it is not a requirement, members are encouraged to ask for advice for their own problems if they need it. Members are also encouraged to attend as many meetings as they can, but are not required to come to all of them if they do not wish to or are not available. During meetings, members can submit questions that they have and requests for advice anonymously and receive the help of the other members. Additionally, they can provide tips and ideas for solutions on issues that are noticeably common among the Stuyvesant community, even without being directly asked for advice. We will also have other activities that will help us empathize with each other and grow as a community. In addition to meetings, members can ask for advice online through a Google Form any time that they may need it. They can also choose whether they would like for their submission to be anonymous and whether they would like it to be posted on social media. This club seeks to help out students who need advice and provide a community for them to receive the help that they need.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy Advice Column will serve as a safe space for students to turn to when in need of a wide variety of input on advice. Because the club is available for all grades to join, multiple perspectives can be given to an issue, enabling the student who sought help to evaluate the problem from the lens of peers with a range of ages, backgrounds, cultures, and more. By involving students in the lives of one another, those at Stuyvesant can experience the feeling of putting themselves in others’ shoes and gain valuable insight from considering a problem from all angles. Not only will a multitude of responses be given to each and every call for advice, but they also will be sent in a quick and accessible manner. Members of the club are encouraged — and the leaders are required — to give their advice within a certain time period, so those who desire aid will always walk away prepared to face their problem. If the student asking for help permits their submission to be posted publicly, the community at Stuyvesant will be able to learn from the experiences of their peers and potentially resolve their own issues through the answers given to another advice seeker. Stuy Advice Column will also accommodate students who wish to send in their problems anonymously, leaving whichever contact method they’re comfortable with for the club members to send their advice to. This club will bring numerous beneficial aspects to Stuyvesant in fostering community interaction and involvement through the exchange of advice.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
For appointment, the co-presidents will appoint various leaders through an application process every semester. The leadership positions that are available are vice president, event director, and social media director. Eligibility will be determined by dedication, participation in club activities, and the quality of a member’s answers to advice requests. If a member of the club wishes to be considered for a leadership position, they will fill out an application form that the leaders will use to gauge whether they should be considered as a candidate. Once a select number of candidates have been chosen, club members will vote on who they believe best fits the role of the leadership position in question, with the categories of activeness and enthusiasm in mind. All members are expected to respond to advice in an appropriate and kindly manner. They should also strive to create a safe space for all other members of the community by keeping the best interests of the person who requested advice at heart. On the other hand, if both of the presidents agree that a leader is neglecting their duties and responsibilities to the club, then the leader will be removed from their position. Similarly, if a majority of the members agree through a vote that a club president is neglecting their leadership responsibilities, then the president will be impeached. Also, if a leader is responding in an inappropriate or untimely manner, the members will be able to vote on the removal of that leader. Those with a leadership position should strive to attend every meeting, unless they have given the presidents a notice ahead of time with a valid reason. Whenever a new school year starts, leadership positions excluding those of the presidents and vice-presidents will be open once again for application and voting in the same manner as described earlier. Unless impeachment is involved, the president and vice-president positions will change only if a student holding the position has graduated. Through a vote that all members of the club participate in, president and vice-president will be chosen, with candidates being the students who already have a leadership position and are willing to be a candidate.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Advice Column is unique because it is the only club in Stuyvesant that focuses on the exchange of ideas and advice between all grades. It aims to create a safe, welcoming, and inclusive environment for all members where every student has the opportunity to seek and respond to help. This club is very flexible, as advice can be sought or given both online through forms and in person during meetings. Through these interactions, a judgement-free zone will be created, with no limit to the type or length of advice needed. Stuy Advice Column understands the amount of work that students already receive, so active involvement in the club is encouraged but not required by members — the workload is as much as you wish to take.

