Mission Statement:
Stars & Jars is a charity organization dedicated to bridging the gap between senior citizens and NYC youth through art and service.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
While our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, Stars & Jars plans to meet at least once a month and up to three times in the spring semester. However, we encourage people to join our more frequent volunteer opportunities.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stars & Jars focuses on hosting arts and craft sessions and events that contributes to our goal of enriching senior lives. The organization welcomes all Stuyvesant students and other volunteers throughout the NYC boroughs. Students who join this organization will be notified of all future projects. The primary project is making origami stars that are donated to senior resident facilities throughout the city. These sessions will be held in the Stuyvesant building and in cafes outside Stuyvesant. Overall, these sessions will be a relaxing time for students to engage in artistic activities and bond with each other. The supplies for these arts and crafts will be provided by the presidents. Volunteers can also sign up to make jars apart from these sessions. In this case, volunteers can pick up supplies and bring them home. Other projects besides origami stars session include hosting art workshops, themed holiday events, and fundraisers to expand Stars & Jars’ charitable impact. Volunteers have a free choice in which events and workshops they would like to sign up for. The organization has connections with various senior facilities and will be hosting workshops and holiday events within these facilities.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stars & Jars provides a way for Stuyvesant students to relax and take their mind off of the stress of school by making origami stars and having a good time with others. While we work to encourage practices of creativity among senior citizens, we hope to extend the effect to our members as well since many students often do not make time for creative pursuits. In this way, members can enrich others while also allowing themselves to be enriched.  Members can also build connections and make friends, whether that be with fellow students that are in the club or the senior citizens that we partner with. They will get the chance to talk to people from older generations and have conversations that will give insight into their perspectives. Through our in-person events, they can build and practice social skills such as communication and empathy through interactions with the senior citizens and each other. These skills are useful and necessary in everyday life, and getting the chance to build them up is important for future success. That being said, Stars and Jars helps build a sense of community through spreading creativity and creating shared interests. It is a way for students to make a positive impact in our community while having a way to destress in a calming environment.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions in Stars & Jars consist of the co-presidents, secretaries, event directors, and outreach directors. The secretaries, event directors, and outreach directors are appointed through an application screening that does not require an interview. Members of the board must follow the flow of communication in order to ensure steady and efficient communication between departments. The flow of communication occurs as follows. Firstly, outreach contacts and organizes an event with a senior home. Next, they communicate the confirmed event to the Secretaries, who confirm if there are sufficient materials and funds and notify Events of the new volunteer opportunity. Next, events find a leader to coordinate the event and edit the Event Volunteer Form as necessary. The form is sent to the secretaries to check. Once confirmed, the secretaries contact Vicki (co-president) to make a social media post to find volunteers for the event. Events emails selected volunteers that they have been accepted. Volunteers are added to a Google Sheet that records their hours. A day before the event, Events emails a reminder to volunteers to reconfirm.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stars and Jars intertwines arts and crafts with community service. Members can participate in an enjoyable hobby while spreading creativity with the community and also earning service hours in the process. We have different types of events, ranging from interactive workshops with senior citizens to take-home kits that can be completed independently at home. Our variety of events allows all people, whether introvert or extrovert, to participate in activities and help our community at their own level of comfort.

