Mission Statement:
Stuy Art History aims to provide a fun, relaxed environment for students interested in art history and/or studying for the AP Art History Exam.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We are currently planning on meeting on Mondays, although we may change this depending on the availability of our members.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Art History members engage in discussions about art history and participate in occasional projects related to the topics discussed. These topics will be based on the AP Art History curriculum, although they may deviate slightly (and students not interested in taking the AP exam are still highly encouraged to join!). Each meeting will center around a presentation prepared by our leaders or directors, although these presentations are meant to be less of a lecture and more of a blank canvas for thoughts, comments and questions from the members. Throughout the year, members will be exposed to art from across mediums, time periods and cultures. They will analyze the influence of culture and history on art, as well as the influence of art on culture and history. Leaders and directors will provide additional, optional materials for any member who wishes to study more on a topic than our meetings can cover. Leaders and directors may also be contacted outside of meetings if members have any additional questions about the topic discussed.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Throughout history, art has been representative of what people thought were the most pressing issues of their day. Art has been used as a means of influence, expression, communication, and story-telling; thus, art history provides an alternative way to study and understand history. By examining art across time periods and cultures, members gain a better understanding of how historical events, traditions, and religions have shaped the lives of people and continue to shape the lives of people today. Studying art history also prompts analysis and discussion about important social issues and how they have been reflected in the art that has been created, and encourages members to think of how they can use their own art to express themselves. Stuy Art History fills in the gap created by Stuyvesant dropping the AP Art History course for the 2023-2024 school year. The club can become a low-stress yet effective resource for students self-studying for the AP exam, and make the otherwise-daunting task more enjoyable, as members get to learn and make friends in a relaxed environment. However, the club can also benefit students not interested in taking the AP exam but are simply interested in learning more about art history and making friends who are equally art-obsessed as themselves!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
So far, we are planning on having three types of leadership positions: president, vice president, and directors. Director applications will be opened every semester; president/vice president applications will be opened when the leader in question is in their senior year. Director positions will be open to anyone who applies, while president/vice president positions will be open only to members already involved in the club. From there, selected applicants will be invited to an interview. The current president and vice president will appoint leaders based on the quality of their responses to the application and during the interview, as well as their commitment to the club (if for president/vice president position). Leaders are expected to uphold their responsibilities, respond to other leaders’/members’ messages in a timely fashion, and be respectful to all members. If any member feels a leader has failed to follow any of these rules or is not carrying out their duties, the member may submit an anonymous request through our Google form for impeachment. The entire leadership board would then have a discussion with the leader in question and vote afterwards; if a simple majority votes yes, the leader would be removed from their position promptly.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Art History is the only club about, well, art history. Though there are some other art clubs, these mainly focus on artmaking. Stuy Art History welcomes students who are fascinated with art and want to learn more about it but don’t necessarily want to create art themselves. The club thrives on students learning from each other, and fosters an environment where students can study a subject that can be quite difficult at times in a relaxed and friendly setting.

