Mission Statement:
AIM seeks to connect its members with both professional and peer-to-peer services under its three main branches: academics, internship, and mentorship

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, but we meet at least once a month and have a variety of speaker events and college visits scattered throughout the year. These events will have limited seating and will be on a first come first served basis.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
AIM seeks to connect its members with both professional and peer-to-peer services under its three main branches: academics, internship, and mentorship. AIM is a college preparation-oriented organization that seeks to help students gain the knowledge needed to successfully enter the college application process in their senior year. However, AIM intends to reach out to both under and upperclassmen, in its belief that the road to higher education starts as early as the first day of ninth grade. Club members will attend presentations made by former admissions officers from top schools; be given the chance to apply for exclusive internships in the fields of law, and medicine; attend monthly meetings focused on providing support related to personal essay writing, resume building, interviewing, and more related to the job search and college applications. AIM hopes to be a partnership between [Our Future Project] and the students of Stuyvesant High School to provide valuable insight and assist in the college application process.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The AIM club, in partnership with [Our Future Project], offers many benefits to students. First and foremost, it equips them with the knowledge and resources necessary to navigate the intricate college application process successfully. Whether you're an underclassman just starting high school or an upperclassman on the verge of graduating, AIM recognizes that the journey to higher education begins early. By attending presentations delivered by former admissions officers from renowned institutions, students gain unique insights into what top schools are looking for in applicants. The opportunity to apply for exclusive internships in fields like law and medicine not only enhances their academic and professional experience but also bolsters their college applications. Monthly meetings, focused on personal essay writing, resume building, interview preparation, and other crucial aspects of the job search and college admissions, provide continuous support. AIM acts as a bridge, connecting students with admissions experts and real success stories from current and former students, all made possible through its partnership with [Our Future Project]. This collaborative effort creates a platform for students at Stuyvesant High School to access the resources and guidance necessary for a successful educational journey and a promising future. AIM hopes to positively impact the college and career trajectory of the students at Stuyvesant High School.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
It shall be the duty of the president to preside over meetings, represent the club, and perform such other duties as ordinarily pertain to this office. It shall be the duty of the Vice-President to preside in the absence of the President. These executives must be full-time students with the time and responsibility to carry out and host events and panels, as well as the ability to remain in contact with Our Future Project. Additionally, these executives would ideally be upperclass students who have experience and knowledge about the college process.

These officers shall be selected by separate interviews by a committee. The officers shall serve for one year and their term of office shall begin at the commencement of the fall semester. If a vacancy occurs in the office of President, the Vice-President shall assume the office for the remainder of the term, and vacancies in any other office shall be filled by a special election. If anyone feels current leadership is inadequately performing their responsibilities, a proposal meeting will be set up to address these issues and if the problem persists, a vote will be taken to remove leadership and appoint new heads.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club is unique in that it is one of the few that focus on providing supplementary resources and support for students of all grade levels to get a head start on college applications and job search. Additionally, students who join AIM will be given exclusive access to internship opportunities in various fields. While these opportunities will require applications to be completed to be considered, these internships will only be available to those who participated in AIM. Providing these internship opportunities is a focal point of AIM and helps this club stand out apart from others.

