Mission Statement:
Stuynance’s mission is to make financial knowledge easily accessible to anyone.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Tuesday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Since many people at Stuyvesant are in multiple clubs or have other responsibilities after school, club members can vote at the beginning of the year to decide which days work best for everyone. These times can then be adjusted throughout the year, but occur at least once a month and often more.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Personal finance is essential knowledge for today’s world. Amid chaotic markets and rampant inflation, international disputes and rising costs of living, managing one’s money is a skill people can’t be successful without. 
Stuynance makes financial concepts easy to understand and access, and makes them relevant to everyone. This is, from its conception, a beginner-friendly club. No member is expected to come in with any kind of prior knowledge, and Stuynance aims to give its members an easy-to-understand background and a foothold in financial literacy. The club focuses on practical knowledge that applies to daily life, delivered in short, simple meetings without excessive “buzzword” or “mindset” talk. 

Each meeting is intended to be simple and beginner-friendly. Each meeting should stand on its own, and be able to be understood by anyone regardless of prior knowledge. Stuynance knows that a major fraction of people are uncomfortable with finances and the stock market - an early 2022 poll by Allianz, a financial services company, shows that 43% of American adults are “too nervous to invest in the market”. In high schoolers, who are more inexperienced with finance, this number can only be higher. Stuynance aims to address this issue and bring financial literacy to all - regardless of how much they already know. The club brings knowledge about all aspects of the financial world into a simple, easy-to-grasp series of club sessions and allows any and all participants to learn something new and useful.

In short, Stuynance is a club that anyone can walk into a meeting of, and walk out of that one meeting knowing something that will help them financially, regardless of what that person’s prior knowledge was.

Members and lecture attendees will learn the basics of tax-advantaged savings and investment accounts, develop passive investment skills to maximize their return with minimal active involvement, and learn the key systems that run the financial world, like banking, taxes, and market trends. Members are expected to attend meetings and guest lectures, and also are encouraged to apply what they learn in the club.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuynance provides simple and understandable financial literacy for all.

When someone is not financially literate, they suffer. Financially illiterate people are almost six times as likely to struggle trying to make ends meet, and five times more likely to be unable to provide one month’s living expenses without working, according to a Global Financial Literacy Center survey in April 2022. Financial literacy is an absolute necessity for today’s fast-paced world,with high inflation decimating savings accounts and skyrocketing costs of living all over the world. Living without basic financial knowledge is like trying to live with one lung, or trying to write with a stub pencil. Financial literacy allows people a cushion, over three times more likely to be able to provide for themselves in the case of an $1000 unexpected expense. This knowledge is a necessity for anyone, including Stuy students.

Stuyvesant has great academic prowess, definitely - but the financial literacy aspect of our school is severely underdeveloped. Economics courses mostly deal with the global and national economy, barely addressing how those economic concepts affect an individual, and even less about what an individual can do about their financial situation. This is where Stuynance comes in. This club provides anyone who attends meetings with understandable, simple, yet practical knowledge on how to deal with their own financial situation and improve their outlook for the future. This club allows Stuyvesant students to gain essential skills and knowledge on dealing with money - invaluable information in this time of market unpredictability and high inflation. Traditional approaches like savings accounts, in this climate, will lead to your money losing buying power over time. Everyone, including Stuyvesant students, needs to know how to stay ahead of the curve and preserve and hopefully grow the value of their money.

In this society, money is everything. Members of this club will learn the fundamentals of dealing with their own money, and building financial foundations for the rest of life.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Three club members form the club leadership, the President and at least two, and no more than four, Co-Presidents. Currently these club directors are the Co-President of Assets and the Co-President of Markets. Co-Presidents build activities and club curriculum based on their areas of expertise indicated in their titles. The President oversees club curriculum as well as coordinates activities and outreach. 
Leadership members are appointed when there would be less than two co-presidents or no president present in the next school year. At the end of one of the leadership members’ senior year, the current leadership will select their successor from interested members (interest and members’ motivations are first gauged through a Google form). Members who pass the Google form stage then attend interviews with all leadership members. Leadership members must be approved by consensus of all current previous-year leadership members. 
Leadership members can initiate step-down procedures at any time. However, the leadership member stepping down must continue to fulfill their role until a successor is appointed, if a successor is necessary. If a successor is not necessary, that member may stop their duties at the end of the meeting after the other leadership members are informed of the step-down. If the club president steps down, a successor must be selected. If a club director steps down, a successor must be selected if there are less than two directors remaining. Otherwise, a successor may be selected if the president determines it necessary. If a leadership member steps down, a new leadership member must be selected through an interest and preliminary assessment form, interviews, and full leadership consensus as detailed above. 
Impeachment of any leadership member, reverting them to a normal member, is done through votes of no confidence — one other leadership member initiates the vote, and over half of the club population must agree to impeach the member. Any impeached leadership member may not become a leadership member again in the future, at any time.

What makes this activity unique?:
"Financial literacy and approaching topics like investing and personal finance can be threatening and intimidating for most people. The stock market is a frightening beast, and putting your money into it without proper background is undeniably risky. We don't drop members directly into a “stock market game” or advanced topics like derivative trading and market algorithms immediately- we provide a informational, fact-based base of knowledge for members. Stuyvesant needs a place for people to gain and grasp basic knowledge of their financial well-being, like what “the markets” even are and how to grow their money in those markets without unnecessary overcomplication. 
Stuynance aims to give club members a solid foundation in finance and investment. Instead of jumping right into complicated terms and investing, this club would make the daunting concept of personal finance beginner-friendly. This would make the club accessible to those who might not have prior knowledge about economics or any background in the area. Since personal finance is undeniably an important skill to have throughout life, it’s important to build this strong background early, which is what this club does.

