Mission Statement:
This club aims to both improve beginner and experienced members' lacrosse skills prior to the spring lacrosse season.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meetings will most likely be 2-3 times a week in the fall and early winter depending on the weather. We understand that members may not be able to attend all the practices so members are highly encouraged to end at least 3 meetings a month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Girls Lacrosse Club is meant to provide students interested in joining the varsity team in the spring with the opportunity to play and learn the oldest sport in America. Whether you have absolutely no experience and have never even seen a lacrosse stick, or have played for years, the club will welcome you with open arms. We will go over the basics of lacrosse, such as rules and positions, and have kids practice the fundamentals: passing, catching, ground balls, and cradling. Soon, we will progress to more complex parts of the game like formations and plays and actually run those plays so the students can get a feel of what it is like to be in a real game. Hopefully, by the end of the club, those who showed dedication and commitment will find themselves trying out for the Huskies Lacrosse team and secure themselves a spot. We want enthusiastic players who are committed to the game, and to improving themselves so we can create a new generation of Stuyvesant Lacrosse players that have a strong base, so once we graduate, we know the team will be left in good hands.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will benefit Stuyvesant by providing students a means of accessing the underappreciated sport of lacrosse when they otherwise would be unable to. It will also greatly improve the quality of the varsity team and lead to more victories. The season starts in the spring, so having students train and practice this early on would give the team an edge, especially with the new recruits. Lacrosse is not a sport easily mastered without guidance, as the equipment isn't readily available and not many opportunities exist outside of school for this sport. Thus, there is no other way to appeal to new, inexperienced players and make sure they are able to compete. Additionally, this will provide an opportunity for current members of the team to practice and sharpen up their skills prior to the season starting, and gives a chance for them to bond with new potential teammates. All of these reasons will not only improve the girls lacrosse team at Stuyvesant but also make the school a better place. Having students involved in sports and trying different things is what Stuyvesant is about, and giving the students the opportunity to really try something new and interesting will make for a far happier student body.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leaders of the Girls Lacrosse Club will be the current captains/junior captains of the team. Captains for the lacrosse team are chosen by the coach or voted for at the end of each season. This may vary year to year depending on what the coach of the PSAL team sees fit. If anything were to happen for them to be removed as captain, such as disciplinary action or removal from the team, then they would also be removed as a leader of the club. Members are expected to treat each other with respect and help each other improve their lacrosse skills and work as if they were on a team because that's really what the club represents. It's an opportunity for people to have a glimpse of what it means on the team, and they should act as if they are on it if they want to truly be a part of it. Members who are already on the lacrosse team will be expected to be more committed as they will need the practice to play well during the season, and the newcomers will be encouraged to come as often as they can. If they cannot make it or lose interest, that is fine, but our goal is to make the environment as welcoming as possible so that doesn't happen.

What makes this activity unique?:
Lacrosse isn't a very well-known sport, and as a result, the opportunities available for it are rare. Outside of school, it's difficult to find a league for students to participate in, and even then, those cost money and time - something students might not have much of. Thus, this club will allow them to experience this amazing sport without having to sacrifice a lot. No other club exists in Stuyvesant for the purpose of girls lacrosse, and this will be a great opportunity to increase the outreach and awareness of the lacrosse team.

