Mission Statement:
This club's mission is to provide organized football for everyone who wants to play and have fun with friends.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet basically every school day, but have big games Fridays and Conference Days (Some Wednesdays). Other than that we can organize meetings on the group chat (Discord) or just go to the field, most of the time there are soccer games.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
This Club’s aim is to provide a place where people can play soccer with their friends for fun in an organized fashion. The club will also help its members get better at the game, as it provides practice and allows them to learn from experienced players.  In meetings, club members should expect activities anywhere from World Cup (a soccer game), to full-on games depending on how many members are present and what they want to do. Generally, participants are expected to be kind and respectful, especially about skill level, as well as show up to meetings from time to time. If possible members are recommended to bring their own soccer balls to meetings. Even though this club is low commitment, meaning you do not have to show up to every meeting, we hope to have many meetings so that regular and enthusiastic members can have fun while forming stronger friendships with their fellow club members.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Hello potential members, here are some of the benefits of joining Footbal 4 Fun!

 Stuyvesant’s rigorous academics often lead to a lack of stress relief which can negatively impact one's mental and phyical health. How can you relax if you have to study and cant organize a meeting with your friends? This club solves that issue by creating a space where members can have fun, relax, and meet new friends. Not only is this club good for mental health but it is good for physical health as well. Playing soccer is one of the best ways to get and stay in tip-top shape. Anyone who joins can also greatly improve their skills in football, after all, practice makes perfect, especially when it is with others who might be able to teach you. Whether it be practicing in a small group, full-on games, or just discussing football we hope that our members and the Stuyvesant community gain all that they hope from this club! Lastly, wether you join the club or not we at Football 4 Fun encourage you to play soccer, its a fun and healthy hobbie that makes lasting friendships! 

From the club members, we hope you have a great day and hopefully you join!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions are President, Vice presidents, Veterans, and regular members. The president is the leader of the club and has all the power. The vice presidents have most of the power of the president but need to ask them before making a major decision. On top of that, if the majority of the vice presidents vote too, with reasonable cause, they can “suspend,” even “impeach” the president, or veto his decisions. Veterans can make some changes in the club as a whole but for the most part act as leaders and guides to help new members to get oriented around, learn, and make new friends. Regular members are generally new additions to the club. They can participate in all activities but don't have much say within the club’s rules as they are new. There will be one president, up to eight vice presidents, unlimited veterans as long as they are experienced and unlimited regular members.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club is unique from others in many ways. The main ones are that it not only teaches its members something, but it also benefits their health, all while being fun and inclusive for all. Members can learn how to play better, they can get plenty of exercise, burning almost 500 calories and hour, relax with friends, and there are no cutoffs, you can be a complete newbie to a excerpt, everyone is welcome and encouraged to join when they can!

