Mission Statement:
The key mission of this club is to encourage students to pursue occupations in the creative field and spread awareness of diverse cultures.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule is consistently on Mondays and Wednesdays. However, the bulk of the meetings are on Mondays, so if you can't make it on Wednesdays consistently, that isn't a problem as long as you show up consistently on Mondays! But, there's a catch: Commitment to attending both days of the week will play a role in deciding leadership roles.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
In this club, students will have the opportunity to explore different opportunities regarding the orange economy, which refers to the creative industry. We plan to do so by performing skits, which not only offer students opportunities in acting, but also in editing, photography, and filmmaking, and by creating arts and crafts, which include making backdrops for our skits.  Through the engagement of skits, we strive to share the diversity of our cultures. To accomplish this objective of our club, we also plan to conduct interviews with our parents on specific topics to have the opportunity to learn more about our own cultures and then share them with our peers, which goes to spreading awareness and preserving our cultures. Members of this club are expected to attend most, if not all, meetings, and play an active role in our objectives. If you are shy, don't worry! The club is a small close-knit community where you will have the freedom to explore any opportunity you would like without feeling judged.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant community will benefit in two ways from participating in our club, as it broadens the scope of opportunities from STEM-focused to the creative arts and it helps the unique cultures of our community to be preserved. Firstly, Stuyvesant students are given many STEM-orientated opportunities but not as many creative options. This club strives to fill in the gap and let students who may not be that interested in STEM get a taste of occupations in the orange economy or the creative field. Secondly, the Stuyvesant community is very diverse and every individual has their own unique experiences and cultural background. Some of these cultures need to be highlighted by our students, which is unfortunate as every single culture needs to be shared. Our cultures make up a part of our identities and a lack of awareness of your own culture means a lack of understanding of who you are. This club strives not to let that happen and gives students opportunities to learn more about their culture, share what they know about their culture, and also learn about other cultures. Knowing about the other diverse cultures that make up the face of this planet is just as important as knowing about your own.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Currently, there are two co-presidents and two vice presidents. Once the club begins running, there will be presidents in charge of certain fields like skits, interviews, and arts & crafts.  Our club plans to grant individuals more leadership opportunities through positions such as treasurers, secretaries, editors, and event coordinators. Members seeking such positions must be highly committed to benefitting the club in their own ways to qualify for a leadership position. They shall present their skills and elaborate on how they shall benefit the club and the reasons why they should be chosen. Those interested will have an opportunity to apply for leadership roles. Once an individual possessing a leadership position graduates from Stuyvesant High School, their succeeder is chosen by the faculty advisor and former leader in a joint decision based on participation, commitment, skill, and effort. If an individual in a leadership position stops attending meetings, displays no commitment, attempts to seize control, and conducts themselves in a disorderly and inappropriate manner they shall be removed from their position.

What makes this activity unique?:
As described earlier, our organization gives students the freedom to explore opportunities in the creative field without feeling social pressure. Several clubs provide insight into the creative field, but they either hyperfocus on a particular skill or have a huge community of 100+ members. Our club is a close-knit community that has existed in the school for several years and doesn’t have as many members, thus reducing some of the possible social pressure someone may feel. It also offers many opportunities in the creative field instead of hyper-focusing on one. Even more importantly, it allows the sharing of ideas and cultures and allows the Stuyvesant community to maintain its diversity.

