Mission Statement:
Our mission is education-equality by giving back to underserved students and educating students (in and out of Stuy) about finance in a unique way.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, but we meet at least 2-3 times a month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Fiscus at Stuy is the Stuy school chapter of Fiscus. We have a one-of-a-kind layout where we engage in a multitude of projects to provide educational opportunities to the less fortunate. The purpose of Fiscus is for Stuy students interested in education-equality to engage in projects with that mission in mind. We hope to launch projects such as teaching children (young or old!) about finance to help them grow as young adults and offer more learning opportunities for all ages. We are in the process of developing interactive lessons to host on our website in regards to finance! We believe that learning and mastering the concept of finance is crucial to living successful lives, but is rarely touched upon in a formal class setting. We want to change that by giving students a comprehensive introduction into finance! In addition, the purpose of Fiscus is also to pay it forward! Members can join two main groups- finance or fundraising/donations- or even switch it up! Working in the finance department, you will be working to roll out the projects that we are currently working on (interactive finance lessons). If you decide to participate in our fundraising/donations team, you will be responsible for planning and operating as a team with other members to coordinate (like the name suggests) fundraisers and donations for the events that we are currently undertaking (our projects will range from donating books to schools in Africa to raising money for school supplies for a local shelter to doing clothing drives for children in Africa). Most members will likely settle in one of these two roles; both are equally important! Regardless of which one, all members are expected to be either tutoring or spending their time planning the process of fundraising for our cause.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Fiscus will allow Stuy students to share their passion for finance with younger children and do good by helping raise funds/educational supplies. Stuy students will also get the chance to learn more about managing their own finances as well as some tech related skills as well while developing the interactive online curriculum - all valuable life lessons to learn regardless of what you wish to do in the future. Not only will the Stuy community receive a unique chance to delve deeper into the world of managing their own personal finances, but they will also be able to contribute to our mission of giving more school-aged children opportunities to learn and succeed in the future. In terms of fundraising and donations, Stuy students will be contributing to a good cause by helping to raise money and educational resources for shelters, libraries, hospitals, schools, etc. Anybody can contribute to making a donation- even by spreading the word! We will be making posters and boards to show where anyone can donate. Anyone can become a member of our team and help us fundraise! We will be holding fundraisers around the school community and in parks/environments around the school. We will be donating everything we get to a cause that we -as a team- will decide upon together in order to support the underprivileged and those who need help!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership Positions that will serve on the Board of Directors are the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Information Officer, Chief Finance Officer, Director of Recruitment, and Chief of Technology. For positions that have not yet been filled, they will be appointed based on commitment to the cause, an understanding of the job’s roles and tasks, time onboard Fiscus, and a possible application. Positions can be added or taken away if deemed necessary by the Board that is agreed upon by a majority vote. The appointment of a member to a leadership position and the policy for the transfer of leadership are the same: members will fill out an application for the role that they desire via Google Forms and the current Board of Directors will collectively come to an agreeable decision and will let applicants know immediately once a verdict is reached. All executives are responsible for adhering to our 3 strike policy for accountability (linked here:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1a1sHacFn6neUkpt0aPPc2iOE9g4zAJUyia6hCchzpwI/edit?usp=sharing) Members are expected to come to all scheduled meetings unless notice of an excused absence is given, to provide input on ideas/projects, and have/maintain a strong commitment to our mission, cause, and nonprofit. Members that do not give good reason for absences will incur strikes- after three strikes one's membership will be under review.

What makes this activity unique?:
Even though there are numerous finance and nonprofit educational clubs at Stuy, we have yet to see one combine into a cohesive whole while pursuing projects such as ours. Here at Fiscus, we are giving future generations the education that they need to succeed and practical life skills of managing personal finances- two things that go hand in hand. Our goal centers around reaching out to students of all ages as we believe that the earlier you start on the path to financial wellness, the easier it will make your life down the road. The mission of Fiscus is not only to provide a comprehensive guide to money- management, but also to teach young adults to be financially savvy from starting a checking account to understanding interest. And not only are we educating young adults on finance, we are also gathering books, donating money, and more educational supplies to the less fortunate as aligned with our goal of providing as much help to school age students as possible because in the 21st century, education should be free.

