Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant DECA aims to foster an environment where students can explore their interest in business, marketing, finance, and entrepreneurship.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year since our competition season is winter-spring. During then, we meet every week but during our downtime, we meet at 1-3 times a month for finance presentations.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant DECA’s purpose is to prepare its members for the business world. DECA hosts weekly meetings with a mix of lectures, public speaking drills, and practice competitions. The national DECA organization holds competitions which are open to all DECA chapters. Stuyvesant DECA aims to compete and win these competitions to showcase Stuyesant’s talent and business acumen. Our focus is to make sure that all of our members not only participate, but make the effort to shine in competitions. Although the engagement level isn't extreme, Stuyvesant DECA wants members who work hard and are responsible for their performance. The chapter’s purpose is to encourage skills typically developed after high school (such as networking, presenting, etc.) in a safe but competitive environment to help nurture the ingenuity required to excel in the business world. Stuyvesant DECA emphasizes teamwork and cooperation. Some competitions and activities in club meetings may be individual interviews or presentations while others may be collaborative group projects. Overall, Stuyvesant DECA would like committed, team-oriented, and hardworking members, who are willing to learn and compete. Stuyvesant DECA will work with its members to ensure that everyone is learning and everyone is ready to succeed in DECA competitions.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
DECA will work to benefit the Stuyvesant community in a multitude of ways. Therefore, DECA would benefit the Stuyvesant community by providing a medium for individuals to explore specific business related interests that were not available to them through current clubs. Additionally, DECA helps the Stuyvesant student body by shortening the gap between the real-world and school, providing important experience. While still important, the skills students learn in school have a much more indirect effect on their lives; DECA would provide the most straightforward way of learning career-specific skills that are necessary for success outside of the classroom. DECA is a diverse program with an extensive variety of competitions. It is a competitive program that aids students in many ways, such as building confidence, developing leadership, encouraging scholarship and school loyalty, facilitating the transition from school to work, developing management skills, and lastly developing character as a whole. Those that succeed in the DECA competitions would enhance their portfolio for future opportunities. It is vital to provide and inform students of every opportunity possible. Thus, Stuyvesant DECA will actively benefit the Stuyvesant community, with this mix of competition and learning, that can be utilized both in the classroom and in the real world.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Stuy DECA will be following the standard DECA leadership roles in addition to a co-President. There will be 2 Co-Presidents, a VP of Leadership, VP of Career Development, VP of Marketing, VP of Finance, and VP of Hospitality. It is the role of the current presidents to elect the vice-presidents. Upon the leaving of the presidents, the transfer of leadership will involve the vice-presidents becoming the presidents and in turn electing their own vice-presidents. Future vice presidents will be elected through an application process and leaders will be removed by a majority vote if there is a strong basis for impeachment. The leadership of DECA is responsible for enrolling in DECA competitions, giving presentations, and leading the Stuy DECA team. All DECA members are required to be active, participating members in DECA competitions for each school year. Memberships of those who have not been participating will be under review. Hard work, dedication, and communication are vital in DECA so as a result, members of the leadership team that are not fulfilling their duties will be relieved of their duties following a majority vote by the leadership team.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy DECA is Stuyvesant’s first effort at creating a pre-professional network for students interested in the financial sector. DECA blends together Stuyvesant’s most basic goal of hands-on education, engaging competition, and teamwork. Via rigorous tournaments and a study-focused approach to learning about business, economics, and other interests, Stuy DECA aims to cultivate an environment that prepares students for their planned majors and careers. Stuy DECA’s most defining feature is its ability to create a competitive learning environment, almost like a debate tournament of sorts-- the first of its kind at Stuyvesant when it comes to finance.

