Mission Statement:
The Crewmates is a club that brings together everyone who enjoys the murder mystery game Among Us, whether they like it for real or for the memes.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Thursday, Wednesday, Tuesday, Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, but we aim to meet 1-2 times a month in-person and also play Among Us over Discord or Zoom.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of The Crewmates is creating a community that shares an interest in the online multiplayer game Among Us. The game is known for its social deduction elements, where crewmates work together to complete tasks on a spaceship (or other settings) while trying to identify impostors among them. There are different roles to play as, such as Shapeshifter, Engineer, Scientist, and Guardian Angel, and there are many strategies to learn. There is also a Hide and Seek gamemode that isn't about logical deduction. The club organizes private lobby gameplay sessions, either online or in person, where members can join and play Among Us together. The club aims to bring together players who enjoy playing Among Us, fostering a friendly and inclusive environment for gamers to connect, share experiences, and form friendships. People who do not enjoy playing Among Us but who like it for the memes are also welcome to join!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Ever since Among Us's peak during the pandemic, the game's popularity has declined. For people who genuinely enjoy the game's deduction and strategy elements, this was unfortunate because Among Us rounds are most playable with at least 8 players, and public lobbies are harder to have serious games with. By having a club that can gather together members who are actually interested in playing the game, people can once again play Among Us with a large enough group of players. We hope to be able to implement mods to have even more roles, such as Jester, Sheriff, Mayor, etc. We are also welcoming of anybody who wants to try out this game if they aren't familiar with it already, since we will teach them how to play. We also welcome people who like Among Us memes and jokes more than actual gameplay! Overall, the purpose of the club is to create an environment for everyone to have fun, unwind, and relax after the stresses of school. Hopefully our club can allow people to see that playing Among Us requires deduction and deception and that there is a lot more to the game than just what most people think of it!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions include the President and the Vice President. Both will lead meetings and do duties such as sending out emails and announcements, creating lessons for strategies, and running the Discord server. The leaders must be knowledgeable in Among Us basics and strategies in order to host games and teach members how to play. When leadership positions are being transferred, the remaining club leader will choose the best person to promote based on how they have been behaving in the club (ideally they are knowledgeable in how to play, are cooperative with members, and have good chemistry with the club). This can be done with or without applications. If the leaders are not doing their jobs or if there are any issues with the club, members should tell the leaders or bring the issues up in the feedback form (linked in the Linktree). A fourth of the club (not counting the President) has to agree that the President should step down in order to let the Vice take over (or if the Vice doesn't want to, the Vice will appoint a new leader they see as fit for the job). If the Vice President is not doing their job, the President can open up the Vice President position to other members. If members are not cooperating (being rude in Zoom/Discord, not responding to important messages, etc.), they can be kicked out of the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
There are no Stuy clubs that are about Among Us, and the fact that The Crewmates would allow for more serious gameplay with players who are actually trying to play rather than just memeing is very unique because it is difficult to find a community of enough people who are still interested in playing Among Us seriously. Among Us is also a game that many people have played at least once, so it is something that a lot of the student body would be familiar with and may be interested in.

