Mission Statement:
Mock Trial aims to prepare students to compete in the NYSBA's High School Mock Trial Program and expand their knowledge of trial law.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Mock Trial's practice sessions will be held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays during competition season (competing members are only required to attend two practices per week). Meetings will continue to be held once a week after the competition season ends.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of Mock Trial is to encourage students interested in law-related fields to gain a deeper understanding of and first-hand experience in trial law. Team members will achieve this through careful mentoring from the faculty coach & practicing attorneys and dedicated practice sessions during competition season. Experienced members will guide newer members as they learn the basics of mock and trial and its rules. Students chosen as main speakers or alternates for the competition team will be split into two categories: witnesses and attorneys. Attorneys will simulate the role of lawyers during trial court proceedings, and will be taught to question witnesses, call and respond to objections, how to admit exhibits into evidence, impeach witnesses, establish expert witnesses, and deliver opening & closing statements. Witnesses will work with their attorney partners to prepare to testify in front of a judge and respond to cross-examination questions from opposing counsel. Non-competing members will still be able to participate and contribute to the team. Additionally, Mock Trial will be hosting guest speaker events and field trips to law firms to further engage students with the professional legal world. While requiring dedication to learning rules & procedures and practices, the team will also build community spirit and bonds.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Mock Trial aims to cultivate a passion for law in Stuyvesant students and offers them the opportunities they need to gain a foothold in the competitive legal world. Participation in Mock Trial will establish a firm foundation in trial law, including but not limited to knowledge on how to question witnesses, call and respond to objections, admit exhibits into evidence, impeach witnesses, establish expert witnesses, and deliver opening & closing statements. Team members will also be able to directly apply these skills in imitation trials, giving them a first-hand experience in trials otherwise limited to law school students. Members of Mock Trial will be able to compete in the NYSBA's New York State High School Mock Trial Program, a prestigious interscholastic mock trial tournament hosted by the Justice Resource Center. Members will also have an attorney mentor to assist them throughout the season, offering them advice and insight into a career in law. Mock Trial will also be hosting events outside of competitions, including but not limited to discussion panels with practicing judges and attorneys, guest speakers in law-related careers, and field trips to local law firms and courthouses. Participation in Mock Trial will also promote efficiency in improvisation, adaptability, public speaking, critical thinking, and decisiveness.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The faculty coach will work with experienced team members to determine the current year's leadership roles. Captains will be responsible for promoting the club to the Stuyvesant community, hosting try-outs, teaching new members the procedures & rules of mock trial, choosing members for the competition team, coordinating practices, and organising team events. Rules and procedures for the dismissal of a student leader will be discussed with the team at the first practice session, and will be based on attendance (or lack thereof), professionalism, and dedication the team. If any issues arise, the team captains and the faculty coach will discuss with the student what is required of them to keep their position as a team leader. If there is a continued lack of attendance, reliability,  preparedness, and cooperation, a team member can be removed by the faculty coach. Competing members are to attend at least two practice sessions per week. They are expected to contact the team captains if they are unable to do so. Professional behavior and respect for other team members is expected.

What makes this activity unique?:
Mock Trial is the only organisation at Stuyvesant High School that focuses on trial law. The team offers its members the opportunity to gain first-hand experience in conducting trials in courtrooms, as well as the chance to speak to professionals in the legal world and visit local law firms & courthouses. Such immersion in trial law would normally be limited until students enter law school, and thus gives them a headstart in navigating a potential career in law. No prior experience or knowledge is required to join Mock Trial, so it is an excellent way for students interested in law to explore their passions without the pressure of committing to the field long-term.

