Mission Statement:
The Operation Smile club incorporates students in the mission to deliver free cleft surgeries and comprehensive care to people who need it most.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
There will be weekly meetings, usually on Friday. However, this schedule may be subject to changes that will be posted on stuy activities prior.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Operation Smile seeks to provide life-changing surgeries to patients with facial deformities across the world, with as little as $240 needed for each life impacted. It specifically treats those with cleft lip or cleft palate conditions to allow people to live a healthier and happier life filled with smiles! Without treatment, those with cleft conditions may experience severe health issues depending on the severity of their condition. Therefore, this club aims to contribute to a global network of passionate individuals and empower others under the belief that everyone should have access to safe surgical care. This club offers volunteers a variety of opportunities to help out an international community of patients, including making get well cards, smile bags, sock puppets, and much more! Members are required to attend the monthly meetings, and are strongly encouraged to volunteer at as many events as possible. Operation Smile hopes to foster a loving environment to give back to the community and educate its members along the way.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Through Operation Smile, members will be able to serve as a platform for positive change by raising money through various fundraisers. By supporting this cause, members can directly impact lives globally, whether by raising money for surgeries or by encouraging patients in recovery through crafts made in our activities. Our club aims to promote volunteer service by creating an easily accessible volunteer space in the school, as well as demonstrating a more engaging and hands-on way to participate. Our main method of raising funds will be craft-based, and will present a familiar and welcoming environment for anyone wanting to play a part in creating a change. We encourage anyone who is interested in building good volunteering habits to involve themselves by joining us. Operation Smile seeks to bring awareness to Stuy on the detrimental impact that facial deformities have on patients’ lives, hindering their educational opportunities, ostracizing them, affecting mental health, etc. As students contribute to this team, opportunities will be provided for those who want to take it a step further in leadership roles by developing valuable skills in event planning, communication, fundraising, and teamwork. Additionally, since the club is a branch of a larger, international non-profit, Operation Smile, members can continue to be a part of this program even after their time in school.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Operation Smile is led by the co-presidents, event director, and outreach director. The transfer of leadership will be held at the end of the year when a leader is about to graduate or wishes to rescind their position. In order to prepare for the transfer, applicants who are interested in a position must have been a member for at least one school semester, and can apply to become a leader in training during the start of the second semester when a role opens up. All members of the club will always have access to a feedback google form to offer suggestions to board. If a leader is deemed to be lacking, they can seek to change the leadership by presenting a case to the board with the backing of at least one leader. Members are encouraged to be active in fundraising events and attend weekly meetings if they wish to be recognized and gain positions within the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
Unlike other fundraising opportunities that raise an arbitrary sum of money for a cause, in Operation Smile, each time $240 is raised, a patient receives a life changing surgery. Therefore, the amount of work one puts into the club directly corresponds to the number of patients that are impacted. As such, we are grateful for any help and are flexible in the amount of commitment needed to participate in our club, ranging from helping out in events, to planning behind the scenes.

