Mission Statement:
The purpose of creating Stuy Social is to host social events while also raising money to donate to a different hospital each month.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our club will meet on the every other Thursday throughout the year.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Social, a hangout club for friends, classmates, and peers, hosts events through all parts of NYC. From ice skating to rock climbing, movies, roller skating, and more these social events allow for people in Suyvesant to connect with one another. Wait but there's more! All proceeds from these fun and exciting events will be put towards Stuy Social's mission to raise donations for a different health issue each and every month. 

January for example will be focused on cervical cancer awareness. The club will use the money gathered to donate funds to the Mayo Clinic, renowned for its expertise in treating and diagnosing cervical cancer. Everyone in the club will be expected to pitch in by designing digital posters to spread awareness towards the chosen health issue that month. Additionally general members of the club will be able to vote on and pitch new ideas for up and coming events. If you're interested in meeting new people and raisng awareness for a new health issue every month, give us a try.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will benefit the stuyvesant community in multiple different ways. To start off, Stuy Social as it's name suggests promotes socialization of stuyvesant students outside of the possibly messy school environment. This allows students to relax, have fun, and build lasting friendships. By organizing events in such a way that all boroughs throughout NYC are included, Stuy Social is able to ensure that all students with different hobbies would feel welcome to take part in the club's gatherings. Additionally, Stuy Social's commitment to raising funds and spreading awareness about a different disease each month will have a profound impact on the Stuyesant community's social responsibilities and understanding on this topic. Stuyvesant students will also actively contribute to philanthropy by not only educating other students but also directly funds to non profits such as the Mayo Clinic. This combination of socializing and contribution to a meaningful cause instills a sense of purpose among the student body. The club's emphasis on spreading awareness also allows for the stuyvesant community to learn on their artistic and communication skills. These posters that'll be shared on social media will not only benefit stuyvesant students but also other audiences. All in all, Stuy Social is a vvessel for community building, social responsibility, leadership development, and enriching the stuyvesant community.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leader ship positions include the following, president, vice president, treasurer, and social media manager. The president will communicate with other clubs to find opportunities for collaborations for example an outing to a rock climbing gym with the climbing club. Along with this the president will contact the place before the event for a possible discount to increase donations. The vice president will help in decision making, and take the place of the president in their absence. The treasurer will be responsible for managing the club's finances and tracking the funds raised. The positions will be appointed through applications on google forms. If previous members with leadership positions would like to continue their role they would have to re apply through the google forms. Leadership will be removed if the member no longer wants the role or after two warnings. The first warning will be a reminder for the member to fulfill their duties. The second warning will come after the member has failed to change giving them one more chance to improve. After the two warnings the member will be sent an email regarding the removal of their leadership position

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Social is dedicated to involving students at Stuyvesant for knowledge, indulgence, and even for fun. While other clubs only have fun activities they participate in or only important skills and knowledge they gain, Stuy Socials provides a combination of both. We will bring club members to different adventures throughout New York City (such as ice skating). Spread important pieces of information (such as different health concerns). Raise charity money so other people in society can experience the joy we experience many times a month. By joining this club, you will help the community and also create long-lasting experiences.

