Mission Statement:
The Indicator, Stuyvesant’s senior yearbook, intends to produce a special collection of memories for the graduating seniors.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Though there are few meetings for Indicator as a whole, departmental meetings are up to the respective department editors to coordinate. For select departments, teaching days will be hosted to familiarize staff members with certain skills. Members of the Indicator will also have the opportunity to meet one another and collaborate on assignments!

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Indicator aims to create a 300+ page yearbook for the graduating seniors. In doing so, Indicator staff (comprised of students across all four years) are able to explore their interests in any of our seven departments: Art, Copy, Layout, Photos, Circulation, Business, and Literary. General members are expected to complete assignments from the department(s) they choose to be in.

No experience is necessary to join any department! In fact, most staff members do not have experience in their respective departments prior to joining the team.
Members of the Indicator staff, many of whom start off as freshmen, learn a variety of skills—including digital design and layout, business management and pitching, photography, art, and writing. Indicator staff receive small assignments throughout the school year that allow them to develop these skills and interact with their school on a more intimate level, either in person or online. They reap the fruits of their work at the end of the year when the yearbook is printed.

Though considered a low-commitment club, members can easily become more involved! Most departments space out their assignments, but members may request additional assignments if they wish to be further involved in the process. The Indicator also invites all members to join multiple departments if desired. The process changes year by year, and all ideas and skills are valuable in producing an extraordinary yearbook.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Indicator provides an outlet for students to explore their creative and professional interests. It is also responsible for contributing to the senior class's experience during their last class of high school by planning, organizing, and photographing senior spirit days, hosting fundraisers and the seasonal flower sales in order to raise money and lower senior dues, and producing a beautiful 300-page hardcover book for the seniors to keep as a memento of their four years of high school.

Members of our business department are able to learn valuable skills in handling face-to-face interactions, advertising, pitching products, and keeping track of large sums of money. It is the work of the business department that allows the school and the Student Union to keep the price of senior dues as low as possible. The business team operates in conjunction with the circulation members, who are responsible for marketing and communications. 

Members of our other departments get the chance to interact with hundreds of students—upperclassmen in particular—to work on creative mini-projects for the yearbook, including page design, fine arts, photography, and writing. For example, artists build the backbone of the yearbook around each year’s unique theme. Original works from artists are featured as the cover, headers, dividers, and backgrounds. Photographers capture memories from student clubs, sports teams, spirit days, and more in order to preserve special moments for seniors to look back on. Likewise, those involved in writing and layout assist in small projects that come together to create a cohesive publication.

The Indicator as a whole serves as a physical imprint of each graduating class. Not only does it allow the graduating senior class to leave their personalized mark on their school, but non-senior staff members also gain valuable experience by contributing to a beautiful yearbook.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Editors of each department and the new Editor-in-Chiefs are chosen in June of every school year. The current Editors-in-Chief release a written application, followed by an in-person interview. On average, each department is led by two or three editors, who are in charge of communicating with their department members directly.
Starting in 2018, the position of Editor-in-Training (EITs) for departments was created. While editors are typically rising seniors who have prior experience in their department, EITs are rising sophomores or juniors who take on the full responsibilities of editor while working under the guidance of their older editors, who train them throughout the school year to take their place with more confidence and experience.

Editors who do not fulfill their responsibilities will first be required to meet with the Editor-in-Chiefs to discuss their performance and methods of improvement. If the Editor-in-Chiefs do not see any improvement, they will go to Mr. Lonardo, the Indicator’s faculty advisor. With his permission, we will impeach the editor. Through a written form and interview, a new editor will have to be appointed if one is impeached.

What makes this activity unique?:
Though the yearbook is distributed exclusively to seniors, it offers underclassmen a unique opportunity to become involved more intimately with the senior traditions of the school. It also allows students who want to explore being part of a larger publication without the large time commitment to explore different aspects of business, art, digital design, and writing. Ultimately, Indicator staff are able to have a larger say in determining the artistic and creative vision of a keepsake that hundreds of students will cherish.

