Mission Statement:
While everyone is encouraged to join this club, this club is especially for women who want to know how to defend themselves.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Wednesday, Friday, Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our club will meet 1-2 times per month. Meeting dates will be decided based on member-availability.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Societal barriers have long discouraged women from exploring combat sports and self-defense. This club is a space for members to speak about these societal barriers, the experiences that have brought them to this club, and why self-defense is important. Club meetings will cover important topics such as how to walk home alone at night and how to get out of uncomfortable situations. Through no to low contact demonstrations, videos, and presentations, members will learn the basics on how to protect themselves. No prior martial arts or self-defense experience is necessary — everyone will learn the fundamental concepts, such as how to defend without hurting themselves or causing serious injury, through these presentations. The two large areas of focus will be regarding escape techniques and what one should do after an encounter. As a club we aim to harness an understanding community of people who know how to keep themselves safe and aware. The club’s goal isn’t so much learning martial arts, but rather knowing how to protect oneself in the case of an unfortunate situation.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant women’s self defense club aims to create a safe space for all, but especially young girls, to help understand the world around them with a new sense of security and peace of mind. Society has often discouraged women from fields of martial arts and defense but this club is led by women for women. The club will provide members necessary skills and knowledge on how to stay safe in the real world. This cause is the club’s core purpose and goal. In addition, this club aims to inspire members that are experiencing the world of self-defense for the first time so that they are hopefully engaged to an extent where one may discover a new found passion for martial arts and want to educate others in their personal lives. The women's self-defense club casts a wide net on the facets of safety, recognizing that self-defense encompasses more than just physicality. Members will understand the depth of the cause such as real-time social and spatial awareness, verbal de-escalation, and how to stay calm in tense situations where most may panic. The club’s members will assemble an essential toolkit of skills that they can use in their day to day lives.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Any member can apply for a leadership position through a Google Form sent out during the first meeting of the year. The club presidents will appoint students based on applications. Club leaders will be expected to initiate discussions and help the presidents create interactive and engaging learning experiences. Absences are permitted if the presidents are emailed the week prior or the following day of an absence. By the end of the academic year, another form will be sent to members regarding interest in leadership roles for the following year/renewal of their past role. All leaders will work closely with the club presidents. If the leaders do not meet their role expectations, the presidents will privately discuss why the leaders are falling behind on their duties. If the leader still fails to execute their role properly, the other leaders/ the presidents will assume this one’s role until a new leader is appointed.

What makes this activity unique?:
The women’s self defense club is unique at Stuyvesant in its feminist-forward stance towards promoting safety. While Stuyvesant has other clubs that teach martial arts, none of them focus on student safety. This club will specialize in demonstrating strategies to de-escalate threats to women (and everyone) in public areas, and, failing which, techniques to defend oneself successfully against stronger individuals. It will incorporate techniques of psychology, judo, kung fu, wrestling, aikido, jiu jitsu, and emphasize that sometimes de-escalation is the best defense.

