Mission Statement:
Stuy Animal Association strives to be a close-knit animal-loving community that promotes the preservation and greater appreciation of all animals.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The meetings will be held weekly, but there will be optional meetings that members can attend to help with fundraiser events.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Animal Association (SAA) aims to promote the preservation and appreciation of all animals. The club will give students more opportunities to work hands-on in helping the animal community- even meeting them personally while volunteering at animal shelters. SAA is interested in creating a space where students can learn more about different animals and the issues impacting them in our local communities. General members are expected to attend monthly meetings where there will be a focus on a specific animal, as well as participate in fundraising efforts related to that animal directed to local charities and funds. Members will also be encouraged to volunteer at our partnering shelters, and attend fundraisers/other events inside and outside of school. By doing this, members will be able to develop their character as they become more compassionate about animals and volunteering. Overall, our club hopes to make an impact not only on the people around us but also on the animals in our communities.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant Animal Association club will be one of the many clubs Stuy students can turn to after a long day of work. Out of the many de-stressing clubs Stuyvesant has, SAA is unique in how we focus on the importance of all animals, and we work to teach this importance and to help uphold how important it is for these animals to thrive. Through our biweekly meetings, and weekend activities, members of this club grow to appreciate every living creature, and we work to emphasize what change means and how anyone can help prevent negative change. SAA strives to change the mindset of Stuyvesant students; this club focuses on the little things in life- and how important it can be to maintain a balance. Through discussions of a certain animal and the possibilities of endangerment, as well as through volunteer work and hosting fundraisers, we teach students to be more open-minded and supportive of animals. This club will work closely with a small number of shelters to donate to and really connect with them as well as help them increase their adoption rate. In doing so we demonstrate how as a club, we can make a strong impact in the world. We also discuss the importance of others’ lives and we teach different sets of skills as well. Members will be more knowledgeable about animals in general, and they will grow to be more social and comfortable with working with others. Volunteering at shelters as well as running fundraisers will provide such opportunities as members will get close to not only animals but other people too. SAA is a club students can learn more from as they enjoy group activities and bond.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions will include a president and vice president (or co-vice presidents). The other board members are the secretary, finance director, and graphic designers. Impeachment will occur if a leader does not commit to their share of work and is not inclusive of all members of the club. This process must be agreed to by all the leaders of the club at the time. Leadership will remain the same through the years until graduation unless a leader wishes to relinquish their position. After that, members can fill out an Animal Association Board Application to be considered; the leaders will also take into account how dedicated and passionate members have been about the club's cause, through attendance in meetings and meaningful efforts in events. If the application is accepted, then members move onto the next stage in the process, which is the interview. The president will conduct the interviews (the other board members will be present) and afterwards discuss final decisions with their fellow executives.

What makes this activity unique?:
Although a wide range of interests is expressed in Stuyvesant’s student body of over 3,000 students, there has yet to be a club that centers around serving animals, despite their playing such an integral role in our daily lives. This is where the Stuyvesant Animal Association comes into place. We are working to change this by creating an open space for all animal lovers (Who doesn’t love animals?) in Stuyvesant, promoting a widespread appreciation of all animals. This is what makes our organization so unique, and we believe the message will resonate with other students within the community.

