Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Genshin Impact Club aims to connect and destress students through Genshin Impact, an open-world RPG with gacha elements.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will definitely vary, but we aim to meet at least once a week on Mondays, because that is when weekly aspects of the game reset. There may be more meetings when there are events, especially those that encourage co-op, and when there are new banners, so that all members can celebrate when new characters are available.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
In the Stuyvesant Genshin Impact Club, we wish to introduce students to the wonderful world of gacha gaming, specifically Genshin Impact. Genshin Impact is a game with high-quality graphics, attractive characters, and a compelling storyline (though they have not progressed the main storyline in about half a year). In SGIC, students can seek advice from other members about their character build or simply ask questions about the structure of this game. Students who join this club will be expected to simply attend meets once a week and co-op with other members. Members are also expected to be willing to give out their UIDs. Since this is mainly a fun club for students to enjoy playing Genshin Impact with new friends, even people who have never played Genshin but are interested in it are welcome to join. In SGIC, we will also participate in the Genshin Impact Content Creators program, in which players can earn primos (the in-game currency for gacha pulling).

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Genshin Impact is a relatively casual game, so it really lets students destress. Furthermore, because of the cooperative aspects of the game, students can easily make connections with each other while interacting with each other in-game. This is especially important given the current pandemic since most students are stuck at home without opportunities to meet and befriend new people. Additionally, participating in this club can allow students to grow other skill sets. For example, Genshin Impact has a Content Creators program, where players can draw, produce videos, or stream for in-game rewards. Members who decide to participate in this program will not only find friends, but also an opportunity to experience what it’s like to creatively express themselves. Another example is that, for players that would like to min-max their gaming experience, members can do damage calculations and such to find out how to best play their favorite characters, thus putting to use math skills that would otherwise go unused in everyday life. Adding on, the world of Genshin Impact, though perhaps not at first glance, is rather complicated, allowing players to analyze the information available to them to create theories on aspects of the world. Students who are interested in this aspect of the game will be able to learn how to connect ideas and analyze texts. Finally, Genshin Impact is first and foremost a gacha game. By playing such games, students are able to learn how to better manage their currencies in order to get the characters they want; resource management is a crucial skill, and, through this club, students can learn it.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Members will be given leadership positions on the basis of organizational skill, time management, and their enthusiasm for the club, not by their level of experience in the game itself. We plan on filling the roles of president, vice president and secretary as well as non-organizational roles in damage calculation and lore analysis. This club is currently centered around three presidents, who helped found the club, but future generations of students may vote for fewer presidents. Thus, the hierarchy is not rigid but can change to suit the needs of the club members. These elections will be held on Discord. Members will be expected to follow the rules detailed in the Discord server and be respectful to other members at all times. If more than 60% of the members at any given time wish to impeach the president or other leadership positions, the student in that position will be impeached and a replacement to be voted on by the rest of the club; however, the member that was impeached will still be able to be a general member of the club and apply for future elections.

What makes this activity unique?:
Currently, there aren’t any other clubs that are centered around gacha games, so we will be bringing a new world of entertainment to Stuyvesant. Additionally, unlike other gacha games, Genshin Impact is an open-world game with co-op features, which allows and encourages collaboration between members. Furthermore, Genshin Impact encourages a variety of other activities, like drawing, making videos, doing advanced calculations, and theorizing. We hope that, through this club, students will be able to gain experiences in a variety of these other activities.

