Mission Statement:
StuyAviators aims to unite those who have an interest in aviation and give them a preliminary introduction to the aviation industry.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Members of StuyAviators will gather together at least once a month to hang out and have fun. Meetings can either be in person or online depending on the availability of the majority of members. We aim to host in person meetings on Fridays after 10th period, and online meetings will generally be held when members request them and we reach the minimum quota for students able to attend. During these meetings (depending on whether in-person or online), we may hang out, chat, do presentations, play aviation games, etc. We may even host flight simulations inside the classroom from time to time.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyAviators is Stuyvesant’s first club dedicated exclusively and fully to aviation. Our goal is to give plane lovers a place to hang out and discuss anything about flying. We will be running lessons on the history and basics behind flight as well as some other fun presentations that would potentially catch the interest of fellow students, possibly having fellow aviators among the Stuyvesant community or guest speakers talk about their experiences in the aviation manufacturing and service industries, and give students access to widely-used flight simulator software, including FAA-approved flight simulator, X-Plane 12. If possible, we may plan to take a field trip to the Intrepid Sea, Air & Space museum, where students will be able to take a look at the Concorde, Space Shuttle Enterprise, and other military and civilian aircraft and spacecraft. For students who are interested, we might also run a presentation series on military aviation (starting with World War I and running until contemporary military aviation history) throughout the years and commercial aviation.

Members are not required to attend each meeting, whether virtual or in-person. Members are strongly encouraged to choose meetings to attend based on their own interests.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
It is easier to make friends who share the same interest(s) as you. The more you have in common with them, the more likely you are to become great friends with them. Sharing an interest or two can also allow you to get to know one another better. At StuyAviators, we aim to create a safe space for all where you can hang out with other people who share the same interests as you. You may discuss topics that you are knowledgeable about as well as learn new information about planes from others. Fellow aviation experts among the Stuyvesant community may also ask us to host their own meetings where they will be able to share something they are passionate about to the Stuyvesant community–great presentation practice! StuyAviators is a great place to make new friends while learning everything there is to know about personal, commercial, and military aviation!

A career in Aviation may be a possible career choice for some students at Stuyvesant. Jobs in the aviation industry, especially as pilot or copilot, have some of the best salaries in the world. We hope to help those interested in becoming pilots or copilots (among other jobs) achieve their dream by maintaining their interest and knowledge in aviation before they go off to college or flight school, but also assisting with job requirements, etc, if possible.

Finally, if you have a school project that is in any way related to aviation, StuyAviators is an incredible opportunity to learn about aviation and ask for help. We can offer presentations at various levels, starting with basic aviation principles to commercial aviation, becoming a pilot to military aviation, and how aircraft changed warfare. Our members will be very happy to help you understand aviation and everything it has to offer.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Our club utilizes sophisticated appointment procedures, most of which are essentially redundant, but are there as extras. 

Leadership positions are appointed based on experience, when they joined, and current standing. Position names are based on people you would find on a plane. The current positions are Captain (President), First Officer (Vice President), Flight Engineer (Admin), Flight Attendant (Moderator), First Class (Experts), Business Class (Veterans), and Economy Class (Member). Sub-positions such as Head Flight Attendant may be created based on needs.

Moderators (Helpers) may apply via an application. To be promoted to Admin (Lead Helpers), you must be an existing Moderator with good standing in the community, as well as having this position for several months with little to no infractions. To become an Expert, you must show in-depth knowledge in a certain field (ex: Commercial, Military, Manufacturing, etc). To become a Veteran, you must be in the club for at least one year (Time is most likely tracked through the Discord Server).

If one of the leaders will not be at Stuyvesant the following year, leadership of the club at the end of the school year will be transferred to the member who has been in the club for the longest, who has (one of) the highest leadership positions, and who has a great standing in the community. If more than 2 members qualify to be the next leader(s) of the club, this may be settled via a vote among all the members of the club.

A 'points' system will be employed. Each member, regardless of leadership position, will start off with 0 points. Each infraction committed may result in points being added depending on the severity of the violation. When a member reaches 5 points, they will be given a light punishment (ex. a timeout, warning). When a member reaches 8 points, they will receive a more serious punishment (ex. a longer timeout, blacklisted from a meeting). The highest number of points any member may accumulate is 10 points. When a member reaches 10 points, they will be banned from the club and reported to a dean/teacher. They may appeal their ban via a link that will be sent to them after a week. Each member may only appeal once. The point limit of members who appeal successfully will be 5. Once a member receives 5 points after successfully appealing, they will be permanently banned until the next school year.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyAviators is Stuyvesant’s first club dedicated exclusively and fully to aviation. We aim to provide a community where people interested in aviation can make new friends as well as learn some new things. When learning about the basics of aircraft, how they work, and how to fly them, we use simulators. Simulators, at its core, are basically games that attempt to simulate real life. Additionally, we will be able to host meetings where members will be able to fly aircraft in X-Plane 12 or another great flight simulator using a physical controller (ie. a yoke, joystick).

