Mission Statement:
To promote peace before war arrives and prevent Stuyvesant students from being drafted into the military after graduation.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will begin meeting at Stuyvesant during a weekday. Thereafter, we expect to hold Zoom meetings on Sunday nights twice monthly to interview leaders advocating world peace and understanding.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Our leaders are careening us toward world war. You may be drafted within years. The establishment will sacrifice your life, and the lives of countless young Americans, to maintain economic power at a time when the world is rapidly changing. We, members of SSPNCO, will not take up arms. We believe in absolute peace and nonviolence. We believe that war is a ploy by those in power to enrich themselves at the expense of young lives. We follow the philosophies of Gandhi, King, the Quakers, and Daniel Ellsberg. We are establishing ourselves NOW as conscientious objectors to war. If a student doesn’t identify as a conscientious objector soon, they may be captured. Our purpose is to learn about conscientious objection and its history. Our goal is to help the Peace Movement, both in the United States and worldwide. Our goal is to stop all war and look for negotiation through communication. We will join peace marches in New York, across America, and even worldwide. We will interview and be instructed by some of the greatest peace leaders in the world. We will interview students from around the world and learn from them. Hopefully, we will travel. Your time commitment will not be great because we will generally meet every-other Sunday evening via Zoom. However, no other group may have such a profound impact on your life as you establish yourself as a conscientious objector. We welcome all nonviolence seekers to our society. We will help stop the drumbeat to war and inspire other students to a similar movement. The signposts of war are clear. Help us prevent it. Help yourself by not being captured by the establishment as they make you fight for their interests, not yours. These are the same leaders who drove our nation into insolvency. Next, they will expect you to give your life so that the military-industrial complex can enrich itself. Learn how to say 'no' to war. Help us to say 'yes' to world peace.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant students will benefit by not only learning about the history of peace movements in America, they will participate in the next great peace movement, and the one that will most affect their lives. We will benefit by becoming educated on the reasons behind the movements of Mahatma Gandhi and Dr. King, and we will become inspired by the Quakers, and we will deep dive into the courage of Daniel Ellsberg. We will establish ourselves as agents of peace and participate in world peace efforts. We may save lives in the Stuyvesant community in the years ahead, and we may inhibit Stuyvesant students from serving in the military for the coming wars. We may travel not just locally, but perhaps nationally and internationally to serve the cause of peace. We may even bring other students from around the world to New York to speak to us of their situation and create bridges for peace, perhaps even from countries like Niger or those in Eastern Europe, or conflict zones in Asia. We will gain firsthand knowledge of the great peace thinkers around the world and we establish relations, and they may lead us forward.
We will benefit by learning communication strategies for resolving conflict and practicing them. And we will mark ourselves now as conscientious objectors to the war ahead that seems our leaders are devising for this country, a war between the United States and China that is purely a war of choice. We will reap the benefits of a deep understanding of what our leaders are devising for their good, and not the good of us, the students of Stuyvesant. We will benefit by learning to make our voices strong and unyielding for peace alone.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There will be three co-presidents at the outset. All three will communicate and organize the SSPNCO. If there is a disagreement, the major vote among the presidents will carry. At the outset, we will choose the three among the founders. Any of the co-presidents may be removed by majority vote. The only protocol that members are expected to follow is attending at least one Zoom meeting monthly. It is at these Zoom meetings that we will conduct interviews with world peace leaders and advisors. We may also meet at school and organize activities inside Stuyvesant. Leadership of SSPNCO in future years will be transferred by a majority vote among members for the following year. Leaders and members may be removed by a majority vote from the co-presidents or from a majority vote among members. We are a group devoted to peace and communication, so we expect that peaceful transition and communication will be a strength.

What makes this activity unique?:
SSPNCO will be an activist organization that will live in New York City. We expect SSPNCO to engage with New York leaders, as well as peace leaders worldwide. There is no other Stuy organization specifically devoted to world peace, world understanding, and with a mission to prepare students for conscientious objection as war approaches. Our goal is to save the lives of Stuy students, and to help save the world from war. There will be a great deal of learning about what is happening in the world, and why, and how to prevent conflict.

