Mission Statement:
A finance club that combines business and writing to provide students with the skillsets necessary to run a start-up.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings are typically held every two times a week, but meeting days are flexible and depend on member availability. Each meeting consists of a finance-related lesson, followed by designated time for researching relevant business news for meeting reports/articles. Articles are uploaded to the club folder, converted to a one-pager, and posted on our Instagram spotlights and club website. In place of a normal lesson, the club may occasionally host speaker panels, consulting case studies, and/or investment competitions.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
We aim to educate both members and the collective student body about business topics ranging from finance to entrepreneurship. The Venturer was founded to make business knowledge more accessible to high school students, and we hope to do so by breaking down information in a digestible format. Our club lessons are targeted toward all audiences and are designed to remain informative for students with varying levels of business knowledge. Alongside regular lectures, the club connects students passionate about business and provides a platform for them to write and publish business research reports of their choice. Writers also have the option to pursue more investigative topics such as corporate strategies, marketing and growth techniques, and execution plans that bring companies success. Through a combination of our lessons and hands-on activities, prospective business students will improve their financial literacy, business management skills, awareness of sustainable business practices, and confidence in the investment of stocks/cryptocurrency. Within the club, we hope to cultivate a community of like-minded students interested in the intersection of business and writing. On a broader scope, despite whether or not club members go on to pursue business careers in the future, we hope that all active participants will be equipped with the skills necessary to make informed financial decisions in the future.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Venturer Finance Club serves as a place for students to learn and write about the world of business while providing an outlet for them to have their work published. Meetings begin with a finance-related lesson and conclude with designated time for researching relevant business news for meeting reports. These reports will allow writers to develop strong research and business writing skills, which are crucial for communicating ideas in the corporate world, such as in financial analysis and product management. The club will also host speaker panels, case studies, and consulting competitions, allowing students to discover the intricacies of the business field while providing them with first-hand experiences that allow them to apply what they learn. Through speaker series with business experts, members will have the opportunity to gain insight into the professional world of business and ask speakers about their career paths and experiences. Additionally, by participating in Venturer case studies and competitions, students will learn how to provide a product pitch, decide if a company is worth investing in, and pose a potential consulting presentation detailing their findings. Active members will be selected to participate in out-of-school competitions, usually in teams of four. Teams will receive guidance from the leadership board, which has experience competing and winning in investment competitions.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Venturer Finance Club has a president and three executives on the leadership board. The president hosts club meetings, oversees the writing and publication process, and manages the appointment of the Chief of Operations, Director of Public Relations, and Director of Web Development. The Chief of Operations manages administrative affairs and facilitates the procedures of the club; the Director of Public Relations is responsible for public outreach, collaborations with other clubs, and social media accounts; and the Director of Web Development maintains the website and formats articles on the site. All members of the executive board are responsible for planning meeting activities, editing group reports/articles, providing suggestions to writers, and reviewing executive board applications. Presidents are chosen by the current executive board after applicants submit a written application and complete an interview. Applicants must have been active members of the club for at least six months and, ideally, would have written at least one report/article. If an executive neglects their responsibilities, they will be issued a warning; upon further misconduct, the rest of the executive board will discuss the issue and vote on whether or not the executive should be removed from their position.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant has a plethora of STEM clubs, whereas opportunities for students to explore the business field are much sparser. In addition, though the few existing business clubs teach about finances through presentations, they don’t provide members the ability to explore specific topics that interest them. The Stuyvesant Venturer engages students in producing content they’re passionate about while preparing them for future business careers. Rather than simply attending lectures, members learn from group collaboration and research, which improves their understanding and retention of what they learn. Executives are still there to guide and mentor writers, but members are the driving force behind the business paths in which they choose to delve into.

