Mission Statement:
We aim to bring all types of business competitions to students and provide resources for them to successfully proceed in these competitions.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will hold meetings two times a week, members only need to attend one of the meetings. However, students in leadership positions are expected to come both days a week.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyBC (business competition) provides a variety of different regional and national competitions that students can participate in. They will be mainly focused on creating business plans and pitching them to either a judge or audience. Other competitions may include topics such as the stock market and financial case studies. Each week, we hold meetings that cover content about different business aspects and then connect that concept with your respective chosen competition. One on one aid will be provided at a time that you are available. You will be given a list of competitions to review, and you can select as many that interest you. Our club meetings in the beginning of the year will go over the premise of the different competitions including their deadlines and level of commitment. Almost all of the competitions have some monetary prize or scholarship! You can choose to work alone or in groups to achieve maximum success and have fun!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Our club can help benefit the Stuyvesant community by exposing more business minded students in to explore their interest and attain more knowledge on the topic. Not only that, but this club can also bring people who have similar interests and skillsets together to create something they would be proud of. Our goal of creating this club is to help students learn critical skills such as problem solving, public speaking, research, and teamwork to progress through and hopefully win multiple competitions. They will be given the opportunity to win a monetary prize to help them in their endeavors and build their academic as well as their personal portfolios. These competitions range from creating business pitches to exchanging money (fake) in the stock market over a period of time. These make take weeks and sometimes even months honing their dedication, perseverance, and commitment. It forces Stuyvesant students to think critically and apply the skills they've used in school and their personal life to achieve success in these competitions. They gain experience in the real world, and what differentiates this club from the variety of other business clubs is that we apply business knowledge in competitions and the competitions are not based on a big organization.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions are co-president or president and vice-president, grade-wide ambassadors, social media manager, lesson directors, and scouting director. Presidents will be voted by the club members and all other leadership positions will be chosen by the presidents. For this first year, the co-presidents will choose the leaders based on interest, not club commitment. The following years, the president and vice president will choose leadership roles based the member's commitment to the club. At the end of fall semester, the members will cast a vote if they would like to change leadership positions or keep them for the rest of the school year (in the case members want certain leaders to be removed). For members to be considered for leadership positions they most attend a meeting at least once per week and if they are not able to do so, they must notify the presidents ahead of time. Each member is allowed 5 absences per school year to be considered for leadership positions.

What makes this activity unique?:
Our competitions are not part of a specific organization, so we collect competitions from all regions, universities, and other institutes. These competitions are all slightly different in nature which allows our club members to see which field of business they are best suited for. In addition, our competitions are not restricted to students in our school only. In other words, if two students from two different schools would like to compete together in one competition, the competitions on our list allow them to do so. More importantly, our club involves application of business knowledge in actual competition instead of passively learning the content.

