Mission Statement:
The goal of The Spectator, the school newspaper of Stuyvesant High School, is to inform the Stuyvesant community.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Varies by department, but typically once every two weeks.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Spectator is established as a public forum for expression, and as a voice in the free and open discussion of issues for all parties. The Spectator provides a full opportunity for all groups to inquire, question and exchange ideas. Content should reflect areas of school interest, including topics about which there may be dissent or controversy. The Editors-in-Chief, with the counsel of the Faculty Advisor, will make the final content decisions for The Spectator.

All student journalists, including Editors and staff members, must follow professional standards of journalism in reporting and writing.

The Spectator is committed to remaining independent from the influence of the administration and other groups who may wish to use the newspaper to pursue their interests. This commitment chiefly includes independence from prior review by any and all groups except those with whom the Editors make an agreement to review the content in order to advise Editors on matters of style and content; these individuals will review the content of the newspaper before printing under the promise of confidentiality. Additionally, we choose to remain financially independent from the administration and Student Union in order to preserve our journalistic integrity.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The goal of The Spectator, the school newspaper of Stuyvesant High School, is to inform the Stuyvesant community, including students, teachers, administrators and parents, of the significant events and issues pertaining to the school.

The Spectator is established as a public forum for expression, and as a voice in the free and open discussion of issues for all parties. The Spectator provides a full opportunity for all groups to inquire, question and exchange ideas. Content should reflect areas of school interest, including topics about which there may be dissent or controversy. The Editors-in-Chief, with the counsel of the Faculty Advisor, will make the final content decisions for The Spectator.

All student journalists, including Editors and staff members, must follow professional standards of journalism in reporting and writing.

The Spectator is committed to remaining independent from the influence of the administration and other groups who may wish to use the newspaper to pursue their interests. This commitment chiefly includes independence from prior review by any and all groups except those with whom the Editors make an agreement to review the content in order to advise Editors on matters of style and content; these individuals will review the content of the newspaper before printing under the promise of confidentiality. Additionally, we choose to remain financially independent from the administration and Student Union in order to preserve our journalistic integrity.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Editor in Chief: In general, two Editors-in-Chief share all responsibilities noted in this charter and act as the leaders of The Spectator. However, an Editor-in-Chief and a Managing Editor may also lead The Spectator, in which case the Editor-in-Chief runs the newspaper in concert with the Managing Editor and with counsel from the Faculty Advisor, though they are the one who makes the final decisions on all aspects of the paper except the filling of and removal from positions. The Editor-in-Chief is held responsible for all content in the newspaper and coordinates the printing of the paper. 

Managing Board: The Managing Board consists of six members, including the Editors-in-Chief or a Managing Editor (if one exists) and four Department Editors of their choice. The Managing Board advises the Editor-in-Chief and Managing Editor on all issues involving the newspaper. The outgoing Managing Board is encouraged to advise the incoming Editor-in-Chief and Managing Editor on selecting Editors for a new Managing Board. Additionally, the Editors-in-Chief must approve of all incoming Editors. Managing Board members will be chosen at the discretion of the Editor-in-Chief.

Department Editors: Each department has at least one, and at most four Editors. Editors who are recommended for the position by outgoing Department Editors (barring those who are removed from their position) and then approved by the Editors-in-Chief. Department Editors are responsible for managing their respective staffs, editing an equal share of content from their departments as their coeditors and recruiting staff members. Outgoing department editors are responsible for training their successors.

All concerns regarding Editors not performing their duties adequately should be taken to the Editor-in-Chief and Managing Editor. If they deem the case worthy of further attention, they can present the case to the Managing Board. If the Managing Board decides that the case should be furthered, it can hold a vote; if a two-thirds majority is obtained there, the matter moves on to the Editorial Board. If a two-thirds majority is obtained there, the removal from position is approved.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Spectator is committed to remaining independent from the influence of the administration and other groups who may wish to use the newspaper to pursue their interests. This commitment chiefly includes independence from prior review by any and all groups except those with whom the Editors make an agreement to review the content in order to advise Editors on matters of style and content; these individuals will review the content of the newspaper before printing under the promise of confidentiality. Additionally, we choose to remain financially independent from the administration and Student Union in order to preserve our journalistic integrity.

