Mission Statement:
OpTED In empowers people by voicing opinions on topics of debate. Eventually, these arguments will be broadcasted as Ted Talks that members star in.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
This club will meet once a week. The day it meets every week is based on members’ availability. Every week there will be a poll for the members to decide the meeting day.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of this club is to give people a chance to speak up about issues they care about. It is important for young people to understand the power of their own voice. This club aims to bring out important contemporary issues to our large community through gathering voices and having thorough discussions and debates to analyze the issues. This club will be a place to challenge opinions and analyze multiple perspectives. Collaboration with other clubs at Stuyvesant, other organizations, and individual speakers will be one main way different voices will be gathered. The issues other clubs tackle could potentially be turned into a topic for our discussions and the TED talks. Through the involvement of other clubs in TED talks, the Stuyvesant community will be more connected than before. In addition, TED talks are a big opportunity for members to experience a big event that has rarely happened at Stuyvesant.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This club gives opportunities to people to do TED talks or be a part of the production of TED talk speeches and events. Members will be able to experience an event that has rarely happened at Stuyvesant. In addition, it gives people from other clubs at Stuyvesant a chance to showcase their cause through meaningful speeches. Through that, every few months there are opportunities for members to be director of the topic we focus on that month. They would lead the discussion and preparation with the presidents for the TED talks. This club gives members a chance to spread an important message about the world to our large community. They will gain public speaking and leadership skills different from most experiences. This club will garner multiple perspectives and introduce new ideas and issues to members. Every meeting will require members to give their opinions and hash out questions and observations they have on issues like climate change, gun policies, political problems, education, etcetera. Members will also be able to connect and learn from other clubs, organizations, and individual speakers that are invited to the TED Talks. A wholesome experience of meaningful conversation and research, creating speeches, and socializing like this is a unique and fun way to build new skills.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
OpTED In appoints one president and two vice presidents: the president is primarily responsible for scheduling meetings and overseeing discussions. By doing so, they facilitate the discussion flow and ensure that it remains a safe space for analyzing multiple perspectives. Eventually, some of these discussions may be produced into TED talks, so both the president and vice presidents are required to have a license for TED talks, which is further elaborated when considered for the role. Not only this but they also engage in outreach, contacting other clubs for potential collaboration and finding events that members can attend to learn more about the topic of choice. Members can also apply to be directors, who are chosen if they display public speaking skills and open-minded attitudes at meetings. Directors are in charge of the topic of focus for a 1-2 month period and work with the executives to develop a good discussion. This position is available every 1-2 months, whereas president/vice president applications will be available in the spring. If any of these leaders aren’t respectful and don’t engage in the activities required, they may be impeached.

What makes this activity unique?:
Unlike other public speaking clubs, OpTED In’s major distinction is our appearance in TED Talks, a platform that reinforces inclusivity and outreach. Members have the chance to project their experiences to reflect more contemporary issues that vary between different backgrounds. Not only can others learn from members’ unique experiences, but people of our age group can also resonate with our arguments to build greater awareness. Furthermore, OpTED In offers the opportunity to create our experiences to become acclimated to current issues and view them in our lens: this includes attending events like protests or speaker events that puts us in different settings that can change our initial opinions or further develop our stances. Another big distinction is that other clubs can collaborate with us to support their causes and showcase them in TED talks as well.

