Mission Statement:
BTB aims to spread awareness about book bans and to help Stuyvesant students, authors, and teachers have access to banned books.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The Books that Burned club’s meeting schedule will vary depending on the commitments of the members and the time of year. BTB will typically hold 3 to 4 meetings a month, and at most once a week. Meetings will last between 30 and 90 minutes, beginning at 3:45 p.m.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
In recent years, a growing movement to remove books and censor school curriculums has swept the nation. Throughout America, the voices of women and minorities are being silenced through the use of book bans. This club aims to raise awareness about books that are being banned and the minority voices that are being suppressed today. Books That Burned (BTB) is a book club designed to engage members of the Stuyvesant community in discussions on American politics, education, and literature. BTB will have various activities such as monthly readings, fun group discussions, speaker events, and more. We’ll also create monthly book lists, book reviews, and give presentations on the history of LGBTQ+ literature and authors of color. General members are expected to attend in-person or virtual meetings around three times a month, and to use their experiences in BTB in and outside of school. If members want to dedicate themselves even more, there are various roles like Book List Curators, Outreach Team members, and social media contributors that help spread awareness about book bans throughout the Stuyvesant community.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
At Stuyvesant, students may seem far-removed from areas in the U.S. where book bans are most prevalent. Even more so, there may seem very few chances to engage in activism to support free expression and the freedom to learn. Books that Burned will introduce Stuyvesant students to books featuring minority representation and important societal themes. By creating and providing online resources, hosting speaker events, and sharing social media platforms, Stuyvesant students can support those that want to read banned books. Furthermore, Stuyvesant students can join BTB simply to diversify their reading lists. The books that are banned are often by LGBTQ+ authors, people of color, and other underrepresented communities. These books almost always tackle difficult, yet relatable, societal issues that are important for the Stuyvesant community to learn about. BTB will create a relaxing, productive environment to share personal experiences with other passionate readers, make great friends, and discover new interests. Lastly, BTB will uplift literature and politics in a predominantly STEM-focused school. Although literature and social activism may not directly be on the radar of many students at Stuyvesant, these topics are deeply intertwined with freedom of speech and expression. BTB aims to encourage reading and critical thinking for all students, regardless of their academic background or interests.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Two co-presidents will overlook all operations of BTB. They will schedule and hold regular meetings for general members and for board members, depending on availability. The Director of Outreach uses email and social media to reach out to partner organizations and contact potential speakers. The Events Coordinator will organize various speaker panels, regular meetings, and other events. Book List Curators will research banned books across the U.S. to write book lists and reviews to share online. Co-Presidents will send out applications for leadership positions every spring (April-May). Any general member who wishes to join the board must complete this application by the given deadline. Only active board members can apply to be co-presidents. Co-presidents and the board of leaders will review applications and send out acceptances before June. If a board member displays problematic behavior such that it is disrupting club operations, the Board will hold a meeting to discuss possible removal.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club celebrates diversity and inclusivity using the power of sharing books and ideas. Books that Burned helps Stuyvesant students become informed about American politics and how they shape our education system. BTB aims to create a community that collaborates on how we move forward with the restrictions put in place about school curriculums and libraries. Therefore, what makes BTB unique to Stuyvesant is its specific dedication to combating book bans, and encouraging reading and student activism amongst the Stuyvesant student body.

