Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Board of Elections, or BOE, is the organization that facilitates the election of Student Union and Caucus candidates into office.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The SU Cabinet meets once per month and the Executive Council/Departments meet more frequently.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Board of Elections is in charge of making sure that all of the Caucus and Student Union elections run smoothly. The BOE is responsible for scheduling, organizing, and managing all student government elections at Stuy. There are five elections held a year: Freshman Caucus elections in the fall, and Student Union, Sophomore, Junior, and Senior elections in the spring. It is a low commitment activity, and it is a great way to become involved in the behind-the-scenes of Student Government without holding office. The Stuyvesant BOE consists of two committees: The Voting Board and Debate Moderators. The Voting Board works closely with the campaign tickets, ensuring that they follow the Official rules outlined by the BOE every year, and that their campaign information online is up to date. The Debate Moderators organize the debates and compile questions for the candidate, as well as ensuring that the debates run smoothly and efficiently.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant Board of Elections ensures that every student government election runs smoothly and without any issues. Under the guidance of the Board of Elections, each and every campaign is assured that they will have a smooth running election, overseen without any bias and the assurance that every campaign will have the same opportunities and same information. It is essential to the wellbeing of the Stuyvesant Student body that each grade, as well as the school as a whole, is lead by dedicated and trustworthy students who strive to better the school, and who will represent the voice of the students. Every election and campaign is monitored closely by the members of the Board of Elections to uphold the quality of the leadership who the students will eventually elect into office.

Not only does the activity benefit the general student population of Stuyvesant, but the members learn essential skills in communication, management, and organization. They learn about the general processes that our Student Government goes through in order to make it into office. By working alongside the potential members of the student government, they Board of Elections members will feel more confident in our student government, understanding the level of work that candidates put in to getting elected.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Every election cycle, there are two chairs that oversee the entire election process. A new co chair is appointed before the spring elections, and will hold their position until the conclusion of the freshman caucus elections of their senior year, working as co-chair for a total of four election cycles. After the senior co-chair ""retires"" in the fall of their senior year, the junior co-chair will pick a sophomore member of the Board of Elections to become the next deputy co-chair based on their work as a general member the previous election cycles.

Members are chosen by the co-chairs before every spring election cycle. Members apply through a google form application, and may have to go through an interview process. Typically, three to four members are chosen for the debate moderation team, and ten to fifteen voting board members are appointed. Only current freshmen, sophomores, and juniors may apply when applications open; senior BOE members retire after the fall election cycle of their senior year alongside the senior chair.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Student Union is unique because it is one of the most extensive and influential student government in New York City. The 160+ members of the SU represent a student body of over 3,300, manage a $180,000+ budget, and oversee 150+ student activities. The SU pursues ambitious policy change at the school and city level by working with the administration and DOE. Finally, the SU hosts school-wide as well as community-oriented events and develops special projects to improve the student experience.

