Mission Statement:
StuyDev develops useful websites to make life at Stuyvesant easier for both students and teachers.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our schedule varies due to consideration of member availability, but we will meet online at least twice a month on either Tuesdays or Thursdays. You are welcome to work on the website whenever in your own free time.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyDev, creates and maintains apps and websites useful for Stuyvesant students and teachers. This club is perfect for those who want to help make Stuyvesant a better place by creating tools that future and current students can use. StuyDev consists of a development team that makes/maintains/updates the websites and apps, as well as anyone who has ideas regarding present or future websites/applications. If you have some experience with web or app development, StuyDev welcomes you to join the development team.  Coders who want to positively impact the Stuyvesant community are encouraged to apply by filling out the development team application. StuyDev is a growing community of engineers and designers who want to make the Stuyvesant community a better place. You will work closely with students who have similar passions as you do, building friendships and connections that will last beyond high school. Join StuyDev and help make Stuyvesant a better school, one website or app at a time.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Accessibility and communication are two of the most important parts of any community, and StuyDev’s purpose is to create websites and applications that address both of these qualities. StuyDev takes extensive feedback from the Stuyvesant community, and creates the most wanted websites and apps, and in doing so provides a community for software engineers. StuyDev's mission revolves around innovation, collaboration, and learning, and these principles benefit the school community in a multitude of ways. First off, StuyDev provides a community where Stuy students can explore the exciting world of technology and design. In an era where digital literacy is extremely important, this club equips members with invaluable skills that extend far beyond the club. Moreover, StuyDev fosters a sense of belonging and camaraderie among its members. StuyDev provides a supportive and inclusive environment where students with varying levels of expertise come together to share ideas, learn from one another, and work on collaborative projects. This not only enhances its member's technical skills but also promotes teamwork and communication. In addition, StuyDev contributes to the school's digital presence by developing apps and websites that enhance communication and accessibility. Whether it's an app to streamline school event registrations or a website that provides valuable resources, StuyDev's creations make information more accessible and user-friendly for students, teachers, and parents alike. Ultimately, StuyDev enriches the Stuyvesant community by fostering innovation, providing essential skills, promoting collaboration, and enhancing digital accessibility. StuyDev's efforts not only benefit the current members but also contribute to the long-term success and growth of the Stuy community as a whole.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There are 2 leaders (co-presidents) in StuyDev, and new leaders are chosen by executive decision after the current leaders graduate, step down, or are impeached. StuyDev appoints members to leadership positions when there are seats available, and the following are considered when nominating members: commitment, programming experience, prior leadership experience, and contribution to the club. Nominees for leadership positions must be on the development team, should have participated in at least 90% of club meetings, and have contributed to the development of past websites. The number of project leaders depends on website demand. For every website under development, there are 2 project managers, one who deals with the software organization, and one who deals with logistics and website/app features. When a certain project is completed, the managers of that project need to begin a new project within a week to maintain their leadership position. There is also another leader who manages the website form and gathers website ideas from the Stuy community, and they must propose at least one idea a month. This idea manager undergoes the same appointment process as the co-presidents. The impeachment protocol for leaders is straightforward. If a leader isn't active without good reason, isn't contributing to the club, or fails to act as a leader, they will be considered for impeachment after extensive discussion with the other leader and project managers. If a leader is impeached, they cannot be reconsidered for leadership positions.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyDev benefits the Stuyvesant High School student and teacher community while contributing to a strong community of designers and software engineers. StuyDev members build student and teacher-requested websites, and contributors to these websites build a strong college portfolio along the way. Members learn to work and communicate within a development team, giving students a setting similar to a real-world company setting. At StuyDev, the skills learned as a team are important throughout college and future careers.

