Mission Statement:
The Harry Potter club is an appreciation of all things Harry Potter! We do everything from play trivia games to watch movies and even have fun crafts!

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The meeting schedule is flexible. We will see which day is most convenient for people to come. Most meetings will either be held on Thursday or Friday. There will be about 3 meetings per month!

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Bring some magic into your life by joining the club! You can come to support your Hogwarts house and even debate if Snape is a good character (we all know the answer to that 😉). Participate in fun games and crafts and win Harry Potter merchandise!!! Attendance is entirely optional, but if you’re ever in a Potterish mood we would love to see you there!!! Rest assured, we will watch the films, read the best Harry Potter chapters, and name the Umbridge of the month! There will be about three meetings per month where you will support your Hogwarts house and win points for the house cup and prizes at the end of the year! We do everything from shape characters out of clay to write our own Harry Potter mad libs. There will be character voice-offs, crazy quibbler articles, and diy Harry Potter wanted posters! So come at any time to enjoy our fun activities and revel in everything Harry Potter!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
When asked how the Harry Potter Fan Club will benefit the Stuyvesant community, the answer is simple - Harry Potter has brought people together for years and we believe it will continue to do so in Stuy. The Potter community is the most close-knit family of lively, welcoming people there is. People love to leave their own worlds to enter that of Harry Potter, and in the often stressful climate of school that has never been more important. Yet everything is more meaningful with friends, so why not journey to the Wizarding World together? We plan to create action-packed adventures and make the most wonderful memories with people who love the Potter world just as much as we do. And of course Stuyvesant is one of the most competitive schools there is, so we feel that it is important to create a healthy outlet for our competitiveness - through Harry Potter trivia! At last, we can gather outside of classes to bond over the books and movies we love. The 4,100 pages of Harry Potter we have been left with are all wonderful and packed with amazing ideas the fan club can discuss while we deepen our love for the incredible, extraordinary Wizarding World.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Samantha Ruinsky and Alexandra/Sasha Ruinsky are co-presidents. Matthias Gross and Hamani Illiassou are vice-presidents and Malka Lubelski is promotional manager. Other manager positions (such as creative manager) will be distributed after a few meetings. Interested members will fill out a form answering a few questions and then the existing leaders will choose. Leadership positions are kept until the leader in question leaves the school or chooses to surrender the position, in which case new leaders will be chosen through a google form filled with questions. People who are interested will fill out the form and the co-presidents will choose the next member fit for the leadership position. If a person expresses interest in a role before there is a spot open, the co-presidents will keeps their interest in mind and inform them when there is a spot available. Members are expected to be respectful to their club mates and their views. Impeachment of leaders/members will ensue if said person does not abide by the school rules and/or by the rules of the club. This includes being continuously disrespectful to others and their views. They are expected to act in an appropriate fashion and most of all to have fun!

What makes this activity unique?:
We have a combination of a wide variety of activities so that all interests imaginable are met! Whether you are interested in arts and crafts, acting, creative writing, voice-offs, British accents, watching movies, or even Umbridge (not likely!), we have something for you. We make sure to have fun at the end of the day while also broadening our understanding of everything that makes the Wizarding World unique! So come join the club to just have some fun!

