Mission Statement:
SWE creates a space for female and non-binary students to pursue the field of engineering

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meetings will take place approximately every other Thursday.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Only 15% of people working in engineering occupations in 2019 were women. Stuyvesant Women Engineers elevates young women at Stuy in fields of engineering to close this gender disparity and create a space for female and non-binary students to unapologetically study engineering. Club meetings involve engineering lessons taught by fellow students and advised by Stuyvesant teachers. Topics range from a variety of engineering disciplines, such as civil engineering, chemical engineering, and electrical engineering. Club members are able to engage in hands-on experiments, like building bridges out of popsicle sticks and building miniature circuits, to apply their knowledge in math and science.

Stuyvesant’s Women Engineering club also provides resources for pursuing engineering in college and as a career. Through college prep lessons and speaker panels of female engineers, members can develop their knowledge on what a career in engineering might look like as well as how to get there. Each meeting has at least 2 student leaders present to administer lessons or activities, and help from any of the student leaders will always be available through email.

Stuyvesant Women Engineers encourages all young women and non-binary people to explore their interest in engineering, a field in which their identities are a drastic minority.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
SWE targets a specific audience to benefit the Stuyvesant community. They work to develop a well-rounded and more in-depth education in engineering at Stuyvesant by highlighting voices and perspectives from the minority. Speaker events and weekly lessons increase students’ experience in the field of engineering, and create a safer space for women and non-binary students to study this field. SWE aims to create a greater interest in engineering for women in Stuyvesant, hoping to inspire the next female engineers, inventors, and architects.

SWE’s mission is to bring more women and non-binary individuals into the engineering field in college and in the professional world. Despite everything, SWE brings awareness to the scarce amount of women actively pursuing engineering occupations and fights for greater female representation and gender equality in engineering and the world of STEM.

Academically, SWE strengthens students’ engagement in their core classes at Stuyvesant, including physics, calculus, and even history, by applying their principles to experiments in their strategizing and planning. This activity serves as motivation for students in their academic careers and may finally answer the question, “when will I actually use this in real life?”

Additionally, an increased interest in engineering overall increases Stuyvesant’s participation in other engineering competitions. This interest upkeeps the STEM-heavy reputation of Stuyvesant and builds girls’ confidence in the Stuyvesant community by earning their place to represent the school

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions are President and Vice President or two Co-Presidents, and Community Organizer. The President must oversee all aspects of the club, and is responsible for curating the year’s curriculum, contributing to lesson plans, organizing activities and activity materials, and keeping track of other people’s progress within Stuyvesant Women Engineers. The Vice President supports all of the responsibilities of the President and serves as a second voice for the President. The Vice President must also contribute to lesson plans and keep track of other people’s progress, keeping the club in check and on task. In the case of a Co-Presidential leadership, the two leaders share these above responsibilities. Community Organizers are responsible for, online media management, creating outreach events for the club, and reaching out to professionals and organizations for such events.

New leaders will be appointed at the end of the year in June. Leaders are appointed based on demonstrated interest in the club throughout the year, as well as a short application. Leaders will be impeached when they break the school code of conduct or by a majority vote of the other members. In the case of a vacancy, positions will be assumed by the position directly below in the following hierarchy (from top to bottom): President, Vice-President, Community Organizer.

What makes this activity unique?:
SWE uniquely supports girls in engineering. Engineering is a male-dominated field, which is evident both in the professional scope as well as in the scope of Stuyvesant High School. SWE uniquely provides Stuyvesant girls with the resources, knowledge, and hands on experience for specifically a career in engineering. Stuyvesant Women Engineers provides a supportive community for women engineers despite stereotypes against them. SWE uses the resources from Stuyvesant to foster growth in engineering at Stuyvesant in a demographic that is often overlooked, and hopes to increase female interest in this field.

