Mission Statement:
To provide an environment in which students of all backgrounds can come together to learn about, discuss, and experience Judaism.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will hold weekly meetings. Most meetings will occur after school.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Our purpose is to provide a place and community for all students who are eager to learn more about the Jewish people and about themselves. We aim to cover broad themes from history, religion, culture, tradition, holidays, pop culture, modern challenges, and politics. We also use varied approaches, including discussions, games, movie nights, outdoor holiday events, cooking and baking, and much more. This gives members a wide range of activities that they can choose to attend based on their specific interests, and allows members to learn about themselves, their peers, and the world through different lenses. Members are encouraged to attend our weekly meetings and larger events such as holiday parties. We also invite speakers and performers and go on trips so that members can form a connection with their identity outside of the school community. We hope that we can inspire, nourish, and provide an open space for discussion, acceptance, and understanding.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
In a very large and diverse school, the Jewish Student Union allows students of similar interests or backgrounds to come together. Our friendly community, food, and fun activities are perfect for unwinding after a long school day. The activities, discussions, and speakers also stimulate our growth as individuals, members of our communities, and citizens of the world. They allow exposure to knowledge and experiences that aren't limited to the general school curriculum and can grant great personal fulfillment. The club allows students to share their values and traditions and creates a space where they can learn about and explore their Jewish identity. Many of our members don't have much previous knowledge of or connection to their background and we hope to encourage everyone to learn about themselves and what matters to them. 

Our meetings and events aim to be both fun and stimulating. Whether you want to learn more about Zionism or scripture, have an intellectual discussion, hang out with friends, celebrate holidays, eat traditional food, listen to Jewish music, dress up, volunteer, listen to speakers from very different backgrounds and interests, build hanukiahs out of wood and sukkahs out of graham crackers, go on trips, play dreidel or play Jewpardy we are the place for you.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
We currently have two co-presidents, a secretary, two representatives, and two managers. Presidents are judged at the end of the semester by the other board members and regular club members and they can impeach a president if mutual consensus is reached. Leaders should complete all work assigned to them, and be proactive and positive members of the club in order to not be impeached. Leader duties include organizing parties, emailing speakers, hosting weekly meetings, reaching out to other members and the Stuyvesant community, and keeping in touch with the JSU borough of Manhattan representative and the faculty advisor. Senior presidents should post an application form halfway through or by the end of the second semester in order to replace any positions that will be open by the next year due to graduation. Chosen individuals will be mentored through the rest of the year by the current board to make sure they understand how to lead the club and so the current Presidents can make sure they have the experience and maturity to take over the club. The opinion of other club members in leadership appointments should also be taken into account.

What makes this activity unique?:
Our club has a distinct sense of community that really shines through all discussions, events, and parties. We are a relatively small club so as a member you are guaranteed to know everyone on a personal level and becoming a part of the club allows you to form so many new friends and even develop a sort of family. We are also the only club dedicated to Jewish learning and culture in the school and have a strong footing in the school's history.

