Mission Statement:
This club would introduce its members to business and trading with a focus on globalization and international business.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Monday but can vary depending on the availabilities of members

What is the purpose of this activity?:
All members of this club would follow a curriculum of handouts and online courses (Edx, Khan Academy, Saylor Academy, etc....) in order to promote a general understanding of business, economics, and trading. Everyone would be required to keep up with the material as we would discuss the real-world applications when we meet. However, unlike other business-based clubs, Stuy B&T would place a special focus on international business and globalization and commit to encouraging interest in the global marketplace. This club would commit to introducing club members to the global marketplace while encouraging a basic understanding of business and trade in the United States. Club members would also be required to compete in national competitions for business and trading in order to produce greater comprehension of the topics studied and to promote team bonding and club recognition. However, most importantly, this should be a club where fellow members connect and learn with each other, and where ideas and fun experiences are shared with one another.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
All members would walk away from this club with a great understanding of the global marketplace, international business, and trading. They would walk away with experience in national business competitions and hopefully certificates or medals to present. Along with this, the members would have participated in multiple online courses, discovered countless business and trading topics online, and received professional certificates to further their future career and college aspirations. While meeting with fellow club members there would be a sense of community and fellowship where students from all grades would converse and advise each other. This club will bring into existence a place for students interested in the global market, which Stuyvesant as of now, does not have. For many students interested in global affairs, there lacks a space to meet with other students with similar interests which is why this club is a very valuable space. The international market and globalization are very important topics, especially today when trade between countries is so common and only increasing, which is why a club focusing on these topics is much desired by many students across all grades. Especially since Stuy students are so international. Global trade is apparent everywhere in our day-to-day lives however, many don't recognize it until they are taught about it, this club provides tutoring for these students in order to recognize the international aspects of our lives.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Those that miss three meetings will be kicked from the club unless they give reasons why they couldn't be present and tell the president or vice president ahead of time. These meetings can be made up by receiving great results in competitions entered into, by going above and beyond in the curriculum, and by participating a lot in club discussions. Hopefully, there won't be any impeachments however, those not actively participating in competitions will also have to provide direct reasons and make up for it later by engaging in other competitions. People may be appointed as presidents in training when the President and vice president are in their senior year. This training will include shadowing the president and/or vice president and taking part in some of their activities until the president and vice president leave. They will be chosen by the president or vice president based on achievements, participation in the club, and academic results in the curriculum.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club would not just focus on learning about the U.S. market but the global marketplace and they would participate in online courses with each other instead of just researching in order to learn the most they can about these topics. Competitions would be a requirement for all members and all meetings would be mandatory except with good excuses. At meetings, there would be in-depth discussions on topics such as globalization where students of all grades can learn from and support each other.

