Mission Statement:
Pursue a more equitable world for every child through advocacy, education, community building, and fundraising.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings are held weekly. Members are required to attend at least 50% of all meetings and events.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
UNICEF UNITE Clubs are on the front lines of youth-led change to advocate for the rights of the world's most vulnerable children. Stuyvesant UNICEF empowers students to become global citizens. Through fundraising, awareness, and community service, Stuyvesant UNICEF contributes to aiding the millions of children who need help. Stuyvesant UNICEF is part of a diverse community of UNICEF supporters who are passionate about advancing the survival, protection and development of children everywhere. Students will develop leadership skills to make an impact by participating in training with UNICEF USA staff. They will also get to build relationships with student leaders around the country and gain a deeper understanding of UNICEF’s programs and how they make a difference for children. 

Each Stuyvesant UNICEF activity falls into one of the following categories: 
Advocacy: Members of Stuyvesant UNICEF use their voice for youth around the globe by staying civically engaged on a federal, state and local level. Members take legislative action online and during key moments throughout the year to push for funding and policies for children. 
Education: Stuyvesant UNICEF spreads awareness about the challenges children face around the world.
Community Building: Stuyvesant UNICEF builds partnerships with local organizations. Members volunteer in the community to help ensure that every child is safe, healthy and has access to a quality education. Stuyvesant UNICEF coordinates its efforts with other UNICEF high school and college clubs to promote the well-being of children in the NYC community and beyond.
Fundraising: Stuyvesant UNICEF plans and hosts fundraising events that raise money for UNICEF. These fundraisers are held in support of children’s survival, access to safe water, nutrition, health care, and protection from violence, exploitation and abuse.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant UNICEF serves as a space to discuss global issues and concerns. Students have the opportunity to brainstorm unique methods to provide aid to the world’s most vulnerable children while gaining a valuable understanding of how to take initiative. Discussing global issues leaves the members with a better understanding of current events and a widened view of the world around them. Stuyvesant UNICEF covers a wide range of UNICEF’s Program Areas, such as child protection, education, and water access. These may align with certain areas of study in history/social studies classes, allowing for a more insightful, understanding inside and outside of the classroom. Stuyvesant UNICEF brings a 70 year old organization, shaping the global development agenda into the school community. The club will also provide students with an opportunity to gain leadership positions that will help them improve their public speaking, conflict-resolution skills, and communication skills. Stuyvesant UNICEF holds events that strengthen the Stuyvesant community and are great ways to meet new people. Through connections with other schools and organizations, students will be able to meet UNICEF UNITERs outside of the Stuyvesant community. UNICEF will help students realize that they have a voice and that they have the ability to come up with their own ideas of how to help children all around the world.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leaders of Stuyvesant UNICEF are united by a common desire to make a difference both locally and globally. Leaders engage with their classmates, community, and local organizations to become champions for children. There are six leadership positions in Stuyvesant UNICEF: President, Vice President, Treasurer, Publicist, Event Coordinator, and Secretary. There are also 5 chair positions that lead the committees during each meeting: Advocacy Chair, Community Building Chair, Recruitment Chair, Fundraising Chair, and Education Chair. Prospective leaders or chairs will fill out a written application and some will be chosen to be interviewed by the current board. The qualifications for becoming a Stuyvesant UNICEF leader/chair include attending over 50% of meetings and events, a GPA of 85 or higher, having strong leadership skills, and being familiar with UNICEF’s programs and campaigns. The chosen incoming leaders/chairs will shadow the current board for a few weeks. After, incoming leaders will host a club meeting on their own and the incoming chairs will host a committee meeting. They will receive notes from the current leaders/chairs on where they succeeded and what they can improve upon. If the prospective leader or chair did not show leadership potential, they will have a second chance to lead before the position is withdrawn. Incoming leaders/chairs will meet with the current board to discuss the club’s accomplishments and help them plan for the following year. Together they will identify challenges and pending issues, as well as promising projects and ideas that should be further developed.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant UNICEF is part of the UNICEF UNITE Clubs program, a youth-led grassroots organization. As members, students are able to use their voice to advocate for children across the globe. UNICEF was founded in 1946 to assist children who were affected by World War II. Now UNICEF works in more than 190 countries and has helped save more young lives than any other humanitarian organization. Members of Stuyvesant UNICEF get to be part of this incredible history. Members of Stuyvesant UNICEF will have the opportunity to be part one of the five committees: Fundraising, Advocacy, Education, Community Building, or Recruitment. UNICEF USA gives out special awards to clubs that go above and beyond the yearly requirements. In addition, Stuyvesant UNICEF gives out its own awards and prizes for members who show dedication to the club. Members of Stuyvesant UNICEF have the opportunity to speak up for children and share their voice with legislators through the UNICEF USA Action Center. Students who want to join Stuyvesant UNICEF don’t have to be an expert on fundraising, advocacy, or the issues affecting the world’s children, all that they need is the determination to help make the world a better place for young people.

