Mission Statement:
Stuy Current Events will serve as a space for students to discuss politics, current events, and the news.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings will be a total of once a month. Meeting days will vary based on member availability, but we aim to have them on Thursdays.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The primary purpose of Stuy Current Events (SCE) is to create a welcoming atmosphere for students who are interested in politics or simply wish to be more aware of what is happening around them and have more control over their lives. Politics is not just limited to what affects Stuyvesant, but also includes decisions and events that affect our nation and those globally. As members of SCE, you are expected to show respect for others’ opinions even if you disagree and share your own thoughts and feelings on the matter being discussed. To create good habits in engaging with news, before each meeting members should do some general research about any article or piece of news they wish to share with the club. The first few minutes of club meetings will be dedicated to this. This helps build research skills that will help students in everything from classes to future discussions.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
SCE benefits Stuy through informing the student body of current events and issues that are going on. SCE helps to create civically-minded individuals through developing its members’ leadership and public speaking skills as members discuss and actively seek out knowledge and updates about the news and what is happening around them. Through discussion, members will be able to expand their worldview, see multiple perspectives, and learn from others regardless of whether or not they have the same beliefs and or come from the same background. Discussion in our clubs will take the form of fishbowl discussions with guiding questions, a full out debate with members taking sides, or four corners. Through actively seeking out the news, members will be able to understand the current economic, social, and political problems of our current society and will be encouraged to seek change. As part of SCE’s bimonthly meetings, there will be lessons dedicated to developing skills like finding credible sources, avoiding misinformation, etc. We hope these skills will be reflected in our members’ daily lives, which includes in classes, future voting decisions, and discussions with others. Overall, SCE is a space where students with varying degrees of knowledge on current events, especially those who have little to no knowledge, can learn to research for themselves, expand their knowledge of the world, and form their own educated opinions.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions include President, Vice President, and Social Media Director. The President and Vice President are responsible for organizing, planning, and maintaining meetings. Additional responsibilities include leading discussions during meetings, guiding conversation, gathering resources for members to read up on current events, and most importantly, fostering a safe and welcoming environment. Responsibilities for Social Media Director include designing posters to advertise meetings, managing social media accounts (including the Facebook group and Instagram), and generally advertising the club to the student body. The Vice president will become President the following year. Members discuss who will be the next Vice President at the end of the year based on their perception of the candidates’ leadership skills, participation, and commitment. The elected Vice President will then choose who to be Social Media Director. Members are expected to have an open mind and show respect for others and the discussion. Additional responsibilities include regular attendance and participation during meetings, which is crucial to the SCE learning process. If a leader misses too many meetings, misses three meetings without prior notice, greatly offends someone, produces hate speech, he or she will be impeached through a discussion with the leadership board and a majority vote within the club. If a leader is impeached twice, their position as leader will be removed.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Current Events is unique in offering a space for discussion over the news, which is important for developing our worldview. It’s especially unique in its open discourse format, with the opportunity to freely discuss a range of topics. In SCE, members become more informed through seeing different perspectives on issues and have a chance to explore other people's interests in current events. SCE encourages members to branch out of their comfort zones and discuss topics that may be difficult to talk about. SCE is an accessible space, and anyone can join regardless of any prior knowledge and expertise on politics! SCE is a place for members to learn and grow together!

