Mission Statement:
This organization was established to promote female representation in the legal profession and aid women in achieving recognition in a male-dominated

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, but we meet at least three times a month on Wednesday and Friday and up to six times before the spring.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of this club is to create a secure space where women's perspectives and legal interests are respected. We wish to give possibilities to those who are interested in law, politics, and government while providing abundant resources. We will discuss well-known court cases and bring notable/influential guest speakers to give us an insight into various types of law. As a group, we will talk about gender inequality to empower women to raise their voices and help each other grow as individuals. In addition, we will have debates and arguments on certain topics to strengthen our public speaking and communication skills. In general, this club will provide leadership opportunities, motivate students to pursue law, and help students work together. It is a great way to gain further understanding for the future and learn more about what law is like. Even though we are a women-oriented club, we are inclusive of all genders.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This club will benefit the Stuyvesant community by increasing an understanding of the law and legal procedures. Students will be able to learn more about the First and Second Amendments, allowing students to engage in conversations about how the government affects the law and the impacting decisions of the supreme court. Needless to say, we will go over important cases in our U.S. history and social studies classes, such as the Dred Scott case, Brown v. Board, Roe v Wade, Obergefell V Hodges, Miranda V Arizona, etc. Furthermore, this club will also allow students to have academic debates among their peers and let students foster critical thinking skills; thus, creating a public forum of opportunities and success. As a respective community, we will encourage students to be active within their neighborhood and permit students to be more engaged and informed. Fundamentally speaking, stuy women in law will also prepare students for the future and give them a glimpse of law and how it plays into society. Students will be able to go on court trips and deepen their knowledge and spark more interest in this career; through this, they will acquire more information and increase the visibility of the Stuyvesant body.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
As for leadership positions, there is already a president and co-president, but we will have a vice president, director of outreach, secretary general, social and media director, and chair. Leaders will be appointed through senior leaders, while directors will be appointed based on experience and their commitment level to this club. Presidents are in charge of maintaining the club and creating informational slides, while directors will bring guest speakers, organize trips, and promote the club. Members are to remain respectful towards others and refrain from using vulgar language, bullying, and discriminating against their peers. On the contrary, the chair is to keep the presidents and members in check. In case of corruption or leaders not fulfilling their requirements or expected behavior, members of the chair will vote, and if the selective leader thinks it's unfair they can appeal. All appeals will be advised by faculty advisors and the Student Union.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Women in Law is a unique club that allows more room for visibility for women in the humanities field. Stuyvesant is a large school, but most of the clubs are oriented around STEM, and our primary goal is to encourage others to join. There are a lot of extracurriculars surrounding science and math at Stuy, but there are barely any law programs or activities that cater to those who are particularly interested in this field.

