Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Law Review Journal aims to create an environment for legal scholars interested in policy, journalism, and politics.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We meet on Tuesdays as of now. We will meet at least twice a month on zoom to make sure that written pieces are ready on time. Meeting days might change depending on member availability.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Law Review Journal mimics official Law-Reviews, which are journals run by law school students, judges, professors, and other professionals. It aims to produce high-quality publications every 2-3 months that showcase diverse perspectives on a variety of legal issues. Students will research and write short to long pieces on legal issues they are passionate about, depending on which club department/s they choose to join. Currently, there are four departments: Social Justice & Public Interest(research and writing centered around social issues), 
Criminal Justice, (writing about criminal law and involves writing case analyses), 
Specialized Law, (pieces focused on specific areas of law not covered by other sectors, such as environmental law, international law, etc.), and Production (assisting in designing and formatting the publication). Students are able to join one or more departments depending on their interests. The club will also organize events where students can further pursue legal scholarship, including but not limited to case analysis discussions, legal debates, guest speakers, and competitive law essay writing workshops. Students will have the opportunity to submit their essays to competitive writing competitions, by having their work viewed by peers. The club will assist interested students in finding competitions relevant to their interests.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This law-based journal provides a unique platform for students to do legal research and write complex pieces, an experience that is often limited to older students who already have a law-school education. While there are many STEM-centered research and writing clubs at Stuy, there is no journal solely focused on law. Practicing writing centered on law will advance the reading comprehension and editing skills of our members by allowing them to have their work reviewed by peers, and also allows them to meet similar students who want to work in the field in the future. The club ultimately aims to foster a welcoming environment in which members can do niche research and have specialized discussions. The journal offers valuable, young perspectives into contemporary topics that are not only relevant to Stuyvesant, but the world. Additionally, the club offers students opportunities to engage with people who work in the legal field (lawyers and judges for example), allowing them to network with professionals in fields they want to pursue and further develop their legal, political, or writing careers. Furthermore, students will practice collaboration in order to collectively produce the best quality publication as possible. Club members are welcome to use peer review in order to better their writing and share research with one another.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There are many leadership positions within the club. Two presidents oversee club operations, such as setting publication dates, organizing events, and scheduling meetings. The presidents will also be responsible for making sure everyone is able to meet publication deadlines, and reviewing written pieces and offering feedback. The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for editing written pieces, and will lead the production department (which will design and format the journal). The Outreach Coordinator is responsible for reaching out to legal professionals who would be interested in being interviewed for research and also finding legal writing competitions where students can submit their writing. Leaders are appointed via applications (google forms), which are reviewed by the current leaders. Applicants may be asked to have follow-up interviews. Leaders will hold their job positions until graduation, resignation, or impeachment. Club members will be surveyed on the club leaders, and if a leader is not fulfilling their responsibilities, then other board members will vote on the impeachment of that club leader. Members should attend as many meetings as necessary to discover what topic they wish to write about, the deadline for their writing pieces, and to gather any resources they may want. There will be one mandatory meeting per month, although meeting times are flexible. Members are expected to respect others, especially in legal discussions where opinions may diverge, and to be professional. Members are also responsible for meeting timeline deadlines so that the journal can be published on time. Any requests for extensions should be made to the club presidents. If a member is unable to attend a mandatory meeting, they should notify the club leadership as soon as possible.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club is unique because it is a high-school journal that practices a type of publication typically only seen in law schools or universities. While law reviews typically consist of legal professionals, the Stuyvesant Law Review Journal will provide high school students with a platform to research law early on. Like-minded students can connect with one another much earlier than usual, which would typically be in universities where they meet people who are majoring in law-related studies.

