Mission Statement:
StuyFS is a club centered around teaching people the basics of full-stack web development.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We plan on building our meeting schedule around the availability of our members; however, our first few meetings will likely be held on Thursdays, barring any unforeseen circumstances.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyFS was created to serve as a bridge between Stuy's computer science community and the world of full-stack development. As such, anyone from any skill level is allowed to join! Whether you're Joma Tech or Fred Flinstone, there's a place for you here as long as you're willing to learn. First, members will gain a core understanding of Frontend development, gaining familiarity in areas such as JavaScript as well as HTML and CSS. This will be done via guided lessons and Code-Alongs, which are engaging mini lessons that conclude with students using what they've learned to create anything they'd like. For those interested in challenging themselves, we also have a plethora of side projects anyone can start at any time. Then, once members are confident in their frontend skills, we will move to Backend development. This will center around Golang, C++, and MongoDB, and will have a heavier emphasis on projects than on Frontend development. Members are also expected to treat each other with respect, as this field isn't easy. If you see someone struggling, help them out! It helps build a community we can be proud of :).

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The goal of StuyFS is to serve as the greatest possible introduction to Fullstack development you could ask for. Fullstack is notorious for being one of the most challenging CS-related fields to break into, as it requires you to master both Front-end and Back-end development. Unfortunately, this high barrier of entry causes many people to shy away from the field, instead opting to hone their skills in one specific area. It shouldn’t be that way. That’s where StuyFS comes in. From highly detailed lessons to fun projects meant to test your abilities, we hope that we can both create a tight-knit CS community and help more people become Fullstack devs. Furthermore, the skills taught in this club are applicable in the real world. As Full-stack development encompasses both Front-end and Backend web development, mastering the curriculum is synonymous with acquiring an extraordinarily marketable skillset usable in the workplace. For the first semester, essential Front-end languages such as Javascript, CSS, and HTML will be covered. We’ll also teach you how to use a few popular JS libraries, such as jQuery and ReactJS. For the second semester, on the other hand, we’ll be reviewing backend material relating to MongoDB, Golang, and C++. Because each and every one of these languages is extremely useful at the highest levels (including companies such as Google and Uber!), Knowing your way around them will undoubtedly help out for internships and other job opportunities.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
As StuyFS is a newer club, the available leadership positions are currently limited to President and Vice President. There can be up to two Vice Presidents at once, and Co-Presidents can be elected if needed. Around the end of each school year, the leadership team will send out an application on google forms. Members interested in obtaining a leadership position should fill out this form, explaining why they deserve the spot. After a certain amount of time, the current leadership team will hold an election in order to determine the incoming leaders. These new leaders will be chosen based on availability, dedication to the club, leadership skills, and mastery of the StuyFS curriculum. In the case of an FS leader not doing what they’re supposed to or abusing their power, a group discussion will be held where all members, regardless of status, can voice their thoughts on the situation at hand.

What makes this activity unique?:
Our organization is unique for many reasons. The first of which is that this club's curriculum will help you immensely should you choose to pursue computer science as a career. The skills taught in this club are so valuable that learning them right now puts you WAY ahead of the curve and can even make it easier to land internships. The second reason why StuyFS is unique is that no other computer science club has the same scope as us. In addition to being the only full-stack club at Stuyvesant, we are also planning to teach our members six highly valuable languages over the course of the school year, whereas others mainly cover one.

