Mission Statement:
Stuy SDA is a chapter of the national gun violence prevention organization, Everytown for Gun Safety.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings will occur one to two times a month, and there will be spontaneous meetings throughout the year as well. Additional meetings may occur based on programming needs and the availability of members.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Every day, more than 110 Americans are killed with guns. The gun violence crisis is a public health crisis, and Stuyvesant Students Demand Action focuses on mitigating the causes and effects of gun violence. Partnered with Everytown for Gun Safety and Moms Demand Action, StuySDA is able to connect to a nationwide organization focused on evidence-based solutions and common sense gun safety policies. As a club, members learn about instances of gun violence with accurate statistics and stories from families and survivors. This research is followed up by meaningful discussions. As a generation deeply impacted by this crisis, StuySDA emphasizes the importance of processing the emotions and fears regarding gun violence that impact the student body. StuySDA takes action by advocating for common-sense gun safety laws through phone banking and canvassing as well as registering voters. The club also focuses on educating the Stuyvesant community and working on initiatives to help those affected by gun violence such as fundraisers and donation drives.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Creating a Stuyvesant branch of Students Demand Action would enrich our student community in many ways. First, biweekly meetings of StuySDA will raise awareness about school shootings around the country as well as gun control legislation and action. This deeper level of scholarship about current events and strategies for mitigating gun violence will, in effect, help Stuyvesant students learn how to advocate for their own safety. Along with making change, the club will strive to understand the gun crisis on a deeper level. Through a historical lens, members will understand how America ended up in this position, and how other social systems continue to intersect with gun-related violence. The club will provide a safe space for discussion and healing in a generation so heartbroken by gun-related deaths and scared for its own future. It should be noted, though, that StuySDA does not claim to be able to provide counseling, and the club will continue to remind students to turn to Stuyvesant's guidance department for support. Through discussion, StuySDA also hopes to help the student body gain empathy for the victims of gun violence and their families, so the Stuyvesant community can avoid becoming desensitized to the issue. StuySDA will not just benefit the Stuyvesant community, though; it will also enhance an already successful movement of teenagers around the country. This sense of mutually supporting and being supported by a wide body of students passionate about gun reform will enhance and expand the Stuyvesant world.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Club leadership will definitely include group leads, who will connect leaders with upcoming trainings, identify and recruit diverse leaders, coordinate with Moms Demand Action Chapter and the Students Demand Action Liaison, set the agenda and facilitate meetings, and collaborate with other leads to plan out goals/action items. Depending on how large the club grows and how manageable work is for club leaders, the club can include up to eight more central leadership roles. A Communications Lead would empower students to access media trainings to elevate their stories as they see fit, particularly those who have been disproportionately impacted by gun violence, represent the group at public events and media interviews, coordinate with Everytown’s communications team to identify events to advise to the media, and support legislative work by coordinating Letters to the Editor and Op-eds. A Resource Lead would manage recruitment tools (peer to peer texts, emails, phone banks) and develop a working knowledge of platforms such as GSUo, VAN (provided by the organization). An Events lead would plan, track, and oversee all group events, coordinate with Everytown staff to secure meeting venues, track attendance at events, and work with Resource Lead, Membership Lead and Treasurer to recruit for events and ensure the event is within budget parameters. A Social lead would create content for social media, like graphic design posters, Instagram Stories, Tweets, or TikToks to bring attention to local, statewide, and federal legislation, share calls to action, promote events, draw in new members, and elevate voices and stories in the group. Lastly, a Community Outreach lead would identify local partners to co-host or support events, perform outreach and lead communication with clubs and activist groups in the area, and thereby facilitate good relationships with community members and organizations. All members will have access to an anonymous form where they can report issues within the club and strike leaders if they do not perform their duties. If a leader is reported twice and at least two members of the leadership team agree, they may be impeached. After each year, the current group leads will review applications with a few essay questions that assess the position specific skills and the student’s knowledge about gun violence. The current leadership team will then pick the students most qualified and committed to the club for leadership positions.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuySDA is unique, relevant, and new! Many clubs at Stuyvesant appeal to a small niche of kids on a specific life path. StuySDA will have a unique inclusivity. The gun crisis in America affects all of us, so StuySDA will be a safe space for any students interested. No prior knowledge or experience is required to show up to join the club. StuySDA also has the unique backing of a large and stable organization, Students Demand Action (Everytown For Gun Safety), which will provide the club with ample resources, guidance, funding, and most importantly, a network of clubs with which to collaborate to create a stronger impact. This will also be a way for Stuyvesant students to make connections with other students around the country interested in social advocacy. The club is also in communication with the Safety Department at Stuyvesant, giving it a unique connection to the school and potential to help.

