Mission Statement:
Stuy Tetris aims to teach the basics and the strategies that players can use in modern multiplayer Tetris.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet 1-2 times a month in-person and also have informal Tetris games online.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Tetris functions as a club meant to gather Stuy kids together to play Tetris and to learn strategies — ranging from the most basic ones to some used by more advanced players — to improve members' Tetris skills. Stuy Tetris has in-person meetings structured with a 10-20 minute Google Slides lesson followed by playing together in groups using the websiteshttps://jstris.jezevec10.com/andhttps://tetr.io/. Lessons will talk about controls, rules of the game, the Tetris effect, combo strategies, T-spins, tips and tricks, and more. Jstris and Tetrio offer the option to create private rooms for members to play in, which is a function Stuy Tetris utilizes. Meetings are optional for members (though it is highly encouraged to join so members can practice with each other), and the Google Slides lessons are available for everyone after meetings. Every Stuy student is welcome, no matter how much experience a member has with the game.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Tetris is a game that helps improve spatial awareness and visualization because of the frequent need to manipulate tetrominoes into a specific shape or space; members may find it easier to manipulate, rotate, and rearrange real-life objects in their heads. Tetris also requires thinking ahead to account for pieces that players would have to move around later on in the game. The Stuyvesant community can utilize this club as a space to relax in, since the point of the club is to learn something new while having fun. Plus, having a Stuy Tetris meeting every two or three weeks can help members unwind after a tiring week of school. Playing on the Jstris and Tetrio sites and using a keyboard can help release excess energy in a player's hands and fingers, especially if they have been feeling antsy. There is no other club that plays Tetris or arcade games, so this would be a great way to group together people who enjoy Tetris. Tetris is also a game that many people think is old-timey, so playing a modern, more flexible multiplayer version can introduce more people to a different mindset about Tetris so they can see that old games are still relevant.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions include the President and the Vice President(s). The President will lead the meetings while the Vice President helps out with what the President needs assistance with (such as sending out emails, creating lessons, helping teach lessons if they know the material, etc). The President must be knowledgeable in Tetris basics and strategies in order to teach the members in the club. When leadership positions are being transferred, the club leaders will choose the best person to promote based on how they have been behaving in the club (ideally they are knowledgeable, are cooperative, and have good chemistry with the club). An application can be used for this process. If members are applying to be the President, they should be tested for decent knowledge of the material being taught. If the President is not doing their job or if there are any issues with the club, members should tell the President or bring them up in the feedback form (linked in the Linktree). A fourth of the club (not counting the President) has to agree that the President should step down in order to let the Vice President take over (or if the Vice doesn't want to, the Vice will appoint a new leader they see as fit for the job). If the Vice President is not doing their job, the President can open up the Vice President position to other members. If members are not cooperating (trolling in Zoom, not responding to important messages, etc), they can be kicked out of the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
There aren't any other Stuy clubs that are about Tetris or arcade games, so Stuy Tetris would cater to the students who like Tetris already and to the students who want to learn more about it. Other gaming clubs may mostly serve as a club for students to play together in, but Stuy Tetris also teaches a multitude of strategies that can come in handy when playing Tetris. Stuy Tetris will also hopefully introduce Tetris as more of a modern game with a bunch of ways to play than as an irrelevant old game.

