Mission Statement:
Humans of Stuy aims to capture the stories of Stuyvesant, one photograph at a time.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We plan to hold meetings once a month for review/check-ins.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Humans of Stuy (HoS) aims to share the stories of the students, teachers, and faculty of Stuyvesant High School, and by doing so, break down common stereotypes that hide the incredible diversity of the Stuyvesant community.  

In a way, HoS acts as a vessel for voices yet to be heard.  While Stuyvesant is primarily known for its reputation in the academic field, some people overlook that the individuals that make up this school are no different from anybody else; these students and faculty are composed of stories, sometimes familiar, other times different, that continues to be written as they proceed with their journey through Stuyvesant.  

Members of HoS contribute to sharing these stories by personally reaching out to these people; on a bi-weekly basis, these members are expected to take a portrait photo of these individuals.  These portraits, along with the individuals’ stories, will be featured on the HoS Facebook page.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Having a platform to share one’s story is important, especially in a large community like Stuyvesant, where it is easy to find your voice lost in the crowd of others’. HoS overcomes this issue by sharing the community's stories via social media. HoS’ social media platform allows stories to reach a greater audience, giving a greater opportunity for one’s voice to be heard by more people.

Those who enjoy reading the community’s stories benefit just as much as those sharing these stories. Having one’s voice heard means that someone is listening to it. Listening is an especially important skill to have in high school, where it is far too easy to humble somebody based on surface-level judgments. HoS encourages “listeners” to picture themselves in the shoes of the individual who is telling the story. In these shoes, we picture how it feels to hurt, to be passionate, or to feel a sense of achievement. As we try to place ourselves in one another’s shoes, we learn to empathize and realize that, ultimately, we’re not all that different from one another.

Last but not least, HoS encourages its members to explore their interest in photography. HoS members are given many opportunities to improve their photography skills through bi-weekly assignments, as well as through receiving constructive criticism from other members.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
All members regardless of position are expected to submit a photo and quote every two weeks. Since we are a digital publication, the photos must be submitted via email. As such, access to a digital camera is necessary for submission. Submitting multiple times before a deadline carries over to the next deadline. Members are encouraged to provide constructive criticism related to either the quote or the photograph. All members are required to get verbal permission from an interviewee to post their story on our page. Meetings are monthly and are mandatory, and are for tracking progress and keeping open communication with the club. Leaders are to submit the posts on the page, communicate announcements to the club, and keep track of the progress of each member. All club leaders are picked and finalized prior to the beginning of the school year. Any leader who does not follow the expectations set will be demoted.

What makes this activity unique?:
Humans of Stuy serves Stuyvesant as an online publication. We are Stuyvesant’s photo journal, capturing portraits of students, staff, and faculty. As such, all our members are constantly practicing their photography, communication, and interviewing skills. We want to inspire amateur photographers and offer them a chance to show their work to the public, regardless of experience or camera quality. Everyone at Stuyvesant has a story to tell and we want to get as many stories heard as possible.

