Mission Statement:
This activity's mission is to help members use chemical and biological processes to rehabilitate the degrading reefs in our school's fish tanks.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We meet at least once a week to perform water changes and test to the tank. It typically takes place every Friday or towards the end of the week.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Club members essentially work to maintain a biological system. Club members will help in reef maintenance by cleaning out fish tanks, growing and breeding super corals, picking out their own favorite fishes to put in the tanks, and even picking out which coral species they want to help grow. They will help clean out fish tanks using protein skimmers (a type of mechanical filtration), algae and mangroves (a type of biological filtration; helps digest the excess phosphates and nitrates in the coral). Mr. McClellan will help teach us reef techniques to help grow a better home to the neglected fishes in Stuyvesant. Members can have potential research opportunities by observing reef growth and studying how a reef system functions. Members can each be assigned special roles towards helping the maintenance of these tanks and help strengthen and become pros on how to build a better home for the fishes of Stuyvesant.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The activity helps foster a productive and learning environment for all members of the club. People interested in studying marine biology, helping the environment, showing off their ultimate cleaning skills, helping conduct research, or just interested in helping fish are all welcomed in this club. This club helps members learn how we can use biological, chemical, and mechanical processes to help make a reef ecosystem thrive. Members learn to be reliable and responsible as they are relied on carrying out specific functions towards building a new ecosystem on scratch. This activity is beneficial as it works to improve the home of the long neglected fish in Stuyvesant whose habitats experienced a sharp decline in quality due to neglect during the two years of quarantine. Members can gain first-hand experience into how an ecosystem responds to the biological and chemical processes it undergoes as they all work to grow a reef system. Each club meeting, club members can observe the growth and interaction of the corals and gain a better knowledge on how aquatic ecosystems work from a birds-eye view. The community and interdependence built from this club helps members learn good leadership skills and teach them how to be more responsible.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
As of now, leadership positions available are presidents and vice president roles. Essentially, they are appointed through their commitment towards the club and efforts and responsibility they offer in each meeting. At the end of the school year, potential candidates are determined between Mclellan and the current president and vice president of the club. They will select potential candidates that have these qualities and will then conduct a sign-up form and interviews.The candidate that is deemed most qualified amongst current board members will be appointed president for the club. If current leaders don't ensure each club meeting runs smoothly (e.g. everyone needs to know what to do and how to do it, be careful of what they put in and out of tanks, and be respectful to everyone), shows disrespect to club members and/or show carelessness on how they handle the tanks, then they will receive a strike. An accumulation of three strikes will result in impeachment. Two social media coordinators positions will be offered in the new school year. They will essentially be responsible in maintaining the social media of this club through providing posts for every meeting. They will be appointed through google forms.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club allows you to grow a reef system from scratch! Club members play an active role towards providing a better quality of life to Stuyvesant's fishes and corals. Not only will they be able to observe the growth of the reef systems they create, they will also be able to choose which corals they want to grow in the tank as well! Not only that, club members can even pick out new fishes to live in the ecosystem that they all worked to create through teamwork, leadership, and responsibility. Last, but certainly not least, this club doesn't require high commitment. In fact, it's your choice to determine how much commitment you want to offer! Whether you attend some meetings or even all, your efforts will be appreciated nonetheless!

