Mission Statement:
BSL aims to create a friendly and welcoming environment where people of color can freely indulge in important and productive race-related discussions.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings are hosted weekly on Wednesdays, but special events such as Talk Circles and speaker events may be held in accordance with student availability.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Black Student’s League serves to hear and amplify the voices of Black and Latinx students here at Stuyvesant, by listening to, discussing, and taking action on their academic, cultural, political, and social concerns. We aim to address any stereotypes and stigmas around the Hispanic and Black community while also answering any questions members may have. We encourage others to respect one another and uplift each other. Every member has the right to voice their own opinions and feelings during our meetings since it is a safe space. Members may also collaborate with leadership and give input on what topic they would like to discuss for future meetings. ASPIRA/BSL makes an effort to make our Hispanic and Black peers feel like they are at home and are comfortable at Stuyvesant. Using initiatives such as monthly TCARs, meetings with students from other schools, celebrating heritage months, and social media campaigns, the league and ASPIRA spread awareness among Black/Latinx and non-Black/Latinx students both inside and outside of Stuyvesant. Ultimately, the Black Student’s League and ASPIRA serve as student-run vehicles to improve the Black and Latinx experience at Stuyvesant.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Black Students League serves as a community of Black and Hispanic students at Stuyvesant and those who want to support the Black and Hispanic community. A small percentage of Stuyvesant students are Black/Hispanic, and it is important to have a space for social and cultural interaction between them. BSL and ASPIRA also discuss important issues facing their communities and offers education around these issues. Some of these issues are not talked about during school, so our clubs bring awareness to them. The Stuyvesant community is welcome to join the club meetings or learn about our mission through monthly TCARs, and Talk Circle Around Race events, where all students can come to discuss current and relevant topics concerning race. BSL and ASPIRA spread general information around Stuy’s community, addressing common stereotypes and stigmas, and celebrating Black and Hispanic History Month by helping people to become aware of important landmarks or figures in Black and Latinx history. Joining ASPIRA/BSL is an excellent way to discuss current events and important issues, as well as celebrate and learn about our culture. We also like to have a lot of fun and it is a great way to destress after school. Joining the Black Student’s League/Hispanic Student’s Association is an excellent way to discuss current events and important issues, as well as celebrate and learn about our culture.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
At the end of each school year, new leadership for the following year's BSL will be chosen based on their contributions to the club as well as the opinions of current leadership and faculty. It is imperative that members try their best to make other students feel at home—not only within club meetings but also outside of club meetings during their classes and other extracurriculars. During club meetings, students should be respectful of the ideas, backgrounds, and identities of those around them. They must give people time to share their thoughts and be an active listener to those talking. Faculty members typically attend our meetings and share their thoughts as well as advise us from an adult point of view. Members should be attentive to the needs of fellow students and proactive in addressing them. If a member of the board is not doing their job properly or isn't respectful of others, club members can talk to the leaders and request that they be removed from their positions.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Black Students League and the Stuyvesant’s Hispanic Students Association are unique cultural clubs that emphasize and focus on Black and Hispanic voices alongside important matters within the community. This is important because, in a school where there is a disproportionately low Black/Latinx, this is not something that is often focused on or emphasized. We aim to spread awareness and as well educate those inside and outside of Stuyvesant. Joining the Black Student’s League/ASPIRA provides a strong network that is invaluable and will last for many years.

