Mission Statement:
To learn about quantum computing and its applications as a community.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our schedule may vary, but we plan to meet once a week, most likely on Thursdays.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyQuantum focuses on creating a strong community where students can learn about quantum computing and its different applications. This club will expose students to a realm of science they may not have learned about before and will allow them to connect the knowledge they learn about quantum computing with real life scenarios. Quantum computing can often be seen as a daunting field of science and this club aims to get rid of any fear associated with it. We hope to either inspire students to pursue quantum computing or just provide them with knowledge that they can take into their future careers. We wish to provide students with resources and connections that will benefit them in whatever career path they take. We will teach our members important concepts in quantum computing and different tools, such as qiskit(IBM), azure(Microsoft), etc. We hope to have talks with experienced people in this field, visit tech companies in this field, attend hackathons, and work on long term projects as a group.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Quantum computing has become an increasingly popular and important subject. It is considered to be the future because it allows us to solve large and complex problems that would not be able to be solved on a classical computer. As such, it is important for students to be able to learn about this interesting, new field of science. This club will help teach students about different and important concepts related to quantum computing. It will provide a community in which students can learn and grow with others who have the same interests as them. This club is open to students of all backgrounds and levels. We want to provide all students with the resources and community through which to explore quantum computing and make an impact in the field. We encourage everyone and anyone to join. Not only will students be able to gain conceptual knowledge in this field, but they will also be able to learn from experienced professionals and make connections with them. We will provide students with many opportunities to practice their skills, including possible hackathons, visits to companies, long-term club projects, resources and tools with which they can explore on their own, such as IBM qiskit, Microsoft azure, Google cirq, etc.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
This club will have a leadership board, led by the President and Vice President. There will be three departments each led by a director: content, outreach, social media. Board members will work together to split up the work required to keep the club running. Board members will be appointed through an application process, where their skill and commitment will be accessed. No prior knowledge of quantum computing is required to be a part of the board. Members are expected to complete their share of the work. Member responsibilities will be distributed among the board and will be decided as a whole. Although the work is flexible and this club is meant to be fun, board members are required to fulfill their responsibilities. A failure to do so could result in being removed from the board (if the rest of the board agrees on the decision). Before any of the board members graduate, the board will come together to help choose someone to take their place for the next year (decided through an application process by form).

What makes this activity unique?:
What makes this organization unique is that it provides students with numerous resources and a strong community with which they can learn about quantum computing. Quantum computing is not taught in STEM classes in school. Our club hopes to educate students in this field, especially as it becomes increasingly relevant and important. We want to provide students with knowledge in this field as they don’t seem to be getting it anywhere else. Although students can get this information online, our club aims to teach students about quantum computing in a fun and structured way, and provide a close community they can be a part of.

