Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Game Devs aims to provide an opportunity for people interested in game development to learn about and experience it.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We plan to meet every Friday and occasionally hold extra meetings on other days.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Game Devs wants to create an opportunity for anyone with an interest in game development to learn about and engage in video game development. Video games are the perfect medium for a collaborative project across different skill sets. Writers, visual artists, sound designers, music composers, programmers, or anyone interested in making games all have something to contribute in the process of game development. Throughout the year we will be going over the basics of video game design, programming, and development. This will be done through lessons and collaborative mini-projects later on. After going through the learning process we hope to be able to produce a finished game that everyone will have the opportunity to collaborate on. Beyond the lessons, the club will also act as a forum where members can share and discuss any game development projects they may be working on as well as search for partners to work on projects outside of the club. The leaders will be open to provide advice and assistance to any of the members working on their own projects.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Our club can provide a place for people with a passion for game design to work with like-minded people or give people a chance to engage in a new hobby that they may never have encountered before. Many people think making video games is all about computer programing and don’t realize how many different skills, like art, writing, and sound design, are needed in game development. Our club will provide a form of artistic expression that many perhaps have never considered engaging in. It will also give programmers a chance to sharpen their skills and work with others. Together, we will teach people unfamiliar with the game making process about game development and if it is something they would like to pursue in the future. The gaming industry is a large one that has hundreds of opportunities to join. Whether you want to work in a triple-A studio or work in or start your own indie development company, our club will help you gain experience working in a diverse team. Experience like this is vital to anyone pursuing a career in video game creation. In Stuyvesant Game Devs members will also have an opportunity to meet new friends with similar passions in art or programming that they may continue working with in the future.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Members are expected to contribute to the best of their ability to the club and attend as many meetings as they can. Club members are expected to respect each other and voice different opinions politely. Decisions will be made based on which option has the most support. Any decision made by the group is to be accepted by all members. All members will have equal power in their respective groups which include programming/game mechanics, art/story, sound design/music, and project planning. A member can be in any number of groups, as long as they can help in each. After either of the two co-leaders graduates, resigns, or are removed, any current member will have the opportunity to apply for a leadership position through a short essay. Applicants will be judged on their character, participation in the club, background in game development, and skill in their respective fields. Combined, the two leaders must have some prior experience in world-building or art, programming, and game development. The applications would be reviewed and approved by the current leaders The leader's responsibility would be planning and leading meetings, emailing members, and overseeing the progress of the project. Leaders can be removed if the majority of club members feel that their performance is inadequate. If a leader receives 5 complaints, which can be sent to the other leader via email, about how the leader fails to do one of the responsibilities listed above, all club members will be asked to vote on whether they agree with their impeachment. If the majority agree, the offending leader will be impeached.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant Game Devs is unique because it provides an opportunity to discover a new art medium many people haven’t explored before. Many people don’t think of video games as an art. In this club, members can see all of the creative thought and artistic works that go into the project as well as the code. Our club allows anyone, no matter the experience in game making, to learn about and experience video game creation and whether it is something they would like to pursue in the future. Stuyvesant Game Devs also provides an environment where people interested in game development can discuss their ideas and make new friends.

