Mission Statement:
Stuy’s Cartoons Club is a community of people interested in cartoons whether it is to watch or make them!

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies from once a week to once every two weeks.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Cartoon Club is a community based club where we can connect with one another through cartoons. Whether it’s because of people’s nostalgia, educational interest, or other, the Cartoons Club offers a safe place to discuss each other’s favorites and potentially meet others with similar tastes as well. And no! Cartoons are not just for kids! Cartoons are meant to be enjoyed by everybody and we will provide a time and place for people to relax and catch up on the newest shows they may miss otherwise. Members are encouraged, but not required, to show up on time in order to not miss any part of the show we’d be watching. By the end of an episode, we can discuss our overall reactions, thoughts, and anything we’d like to share with one another. After every meeting, a google form will be sent out asking questions about the show and recommendations for new ones. Anyone may attend these sessions as a way to unwind from the stressful environment of Stuyvesant and sometimes during meetings we will learn about the intense procedure it takes to make a cartoon or show.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will benefit Stuyvesant by providing a way for people to come together and express their artistic talents and opinions. Since Stuyvesant is generally a STEM-focused school, there aren’t many chances to explore different departments in the animation industry. Cartoons club is a place for students to relax after facing Stuyvesant's stressful and competitive atmosphere. It also allows members to connect back to their roots and become more knowledgeable about how cartoons they enjoyed, during childhood or any period during their life, came to fruition. Because of the club’s laid-back attitude and appreciation of all interests, the non-toxic environment will help members get through the hardships of Stuy's life. Students will form bonds and meet new people discussing the wondrous world of cartoons! We encourage members to recognize the community as one they can become social in, as Stuyvesant’s Cartoons Club is a non-judgmental space that allows students to express themselves, without outside pressure. The Cartoons Club also wants to introduce the unique, artistic aspects and work process of people already in the industry to Stuyvesant High School in ways that have never been explored before. Members are encouraged to attend all provided meetings to not miss out on what we’ll be watching/exploring.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The appointment of leaders for the Cartoons Club will take place at the end of every year through a google form once the current leaders are about to graduate or resign. Members will be given leadership positions on the basis of organizational skill, time management, and their enthusiasm for the club. The number of leaders will be based on the number of members in the club. The current leaders will conduct interviews with the potential candidates to make sure that the Cartoon Club will continue to last even after their departure from Stuy. If someone is not completing their responsibilities as a leader, then they will be removed from their position by the other leaders through a majority ruling. However, extensive warnings will be given beforehand. If a replacement leader is needed then the remaining leaders will decide for themselves how to find a better-suited candidate. Possibilities include a google form, interviews, enthusiastic friends, etc. Those holding leadership positions are expected to show up to at least one meeting a month and be responsive and communicative with other members and leaders.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Stuyvesant Cartoons Club provides a safe place to unwind and discuss the beauty and significance of cartoons in everyday life. While there are other artistic clubs in Stuy, none compares to the love of cartoons this club has. Passionate creators all over the world pour their being into creating beautifully crafted cartoons and it is outrageous to have them go unappreciated. The Stuyvesant Cartoons Club provides a time out of Stuyvesant students' busy week to unwind and enjoy a good cartoon. It can clear their mind as well as open a new perspective on how to tackle different components of their life.

