Mission Statement:
We plan to bring forth research behind why students feel stressed because of school and provide them with resources and coping mechanisms to students

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Wednesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We’ll be holding meetings every other week to serve as a recollection of what the survey polls have shown. We’ll also be holding meetings through zoom relatively often to checkpoint how far we’ve come with our research.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Members will bring their heads together and research about the root causes of the rising student mental health crisis. We first will reach out to students through an anonymous survey, asking about their mental state, while not being invasive or insensitive.  After doing research, members will post their findings and provide solutions and activities to help students. It will function as a way of educating the student body and spreading awareness, while also enriching our knowledge of the brain. We will essentially work together to send out biweekly newsletters that will be posted around the school through a QR code. Students will be able to scan the code to see a page that shows the survey they can take, and the biweekly newsletter (as well as past newsletters). We plan on working with the spectator to get the QR code there as well. This is to allow a better unity and understanding between students and between faculty members and students. This understanding allows schools and students to understand why they find school so dreadful or difficult. This can also be considered a democratic practice in allowing students to express their concerns about their school environment. We aim to make the school environment much safer, and open to suggestions.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will serve as a democratic practice for students, where they can speak up about their issues in an educational space, while also challenging themselves to investigate why exactly these issues came to be. Students will be able to learn more on their own with research and lectures from experts. They will be working toward gaining more experience in the research field, a very important accomplishment for future education. Additionally, they’ll be gaining community service hours for every hour they spend on this club because they are researching to enrich our knowledge and help our school community. The student body will also gain a lot of information from the research that we present since they’ll get a better reason as to why they feel that school is so taxing on their mental health. The school faculty can also get a better understanding of why their students seem to struggle more mentally, and bring themselves to help their students. This activity also spreads awareness about how fragile and overlooked student mental health is. We’re trying to move toward an age where students feel more welcomed in their schools. Not only do we try to help students in Stuy, we also plan on moving forward and helping students all over New York City and maybe even further than that. We would really appreciate all hands on deck!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
As of right now, there are two leadership positions: President and Vice-President. The President and Vice President work together for admin work at the beginning era of the club. We will be trying to reach out to experts and reach better student audiences for our surveys. The President and Vice president will also do admin work, where we schedule meetings and oversee all other departments. As we expand the club, we hope to include a few other positions: Outreach Team, Lecturers, and Social Media Managers. The Outreach Team will contact various experts or academic speakers that are open to discuss the topic and give lectures to the student body. These lectures will be open to any and all students. The Lecturers are members who have proven themselves to be well educated on this topic and can offer to give lectures to the members in the club. The Social Media Managers will use Instagram and Facebook to spread the word of the research we did. Their job is essentially to educate the student body (as well as students outside of Stuy) and offer them the help they might need. The leaders will be appointed based on their application (it will be a google form with all their credentials as well as a few short answers to questions), following an evaluation process. In the evaluation process we will see how much commitment you’ve shown to the club. This will range from how many hours you’ve given into the club, to the amount of work and effort you have shown, as well as your level of work.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy has many medicine-related clubs, or clubs related to biology. However, not many of our clubs actually try to make a change in the student body using the knowledge they gain from their clubs. Additionally, this club’s research is completely student-run and is made for students, even students outside of Stuy. This club is especially not restricted to just members. We are trying to speak out to the rest of the school community to help us garner our understanding of why students feel distressed. With our understanding, we hope to implement changes (be it minor or major) to help students feel safer and less stressed in their communities. We aim to make a warmer environment, with our first steps of turning to scientific research within our community.

