Mission Statement:
Stuy Houseplants' mission is to teach the process of growing indoor plants from seed or cutting (which we'll provide!!)

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
In-person meetings will be held every 2 weeks on Tuesdays. If we have a day off or in case of scheduling issues, we will default to Wednesday.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
At the start of every semester, members will be provided with either a seed or cutting as well as a description of the plant it will grow into, along with general care instructions. Following this, bi-weekly meetings will be held where members can share their progress with their propagation, ask questions, show off their plants, etc. By the end of the semester, our goal will be for each member to have a full plant that they grew themselves, as well as more knowledge and experience regarding maintenance and future propagation projects. We may also lead a field trip to one of the city's many botanical gardens at some point in the spring or fall. Members will be expected to attend all meetings to the best of their ability and continue maintenance and care of their plant. Additionally, members will be expected to pay the costs associated with any field trips they decide to join.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy Houseplants and Botany hopes to provide the Stuy community with education regarding growing and maintaining plants indoors, as well as general botanical information like planty vocabulary! This will be fulfilled throughout the school year as members gain more experience growing their provided plant and then discussing and talking about said experiences during our meetings. Additionally, during Q&A sessions, members will not only learn from the questions they may ask, but also from those that others ask. Not only that, but members can also ask questions digitally by personal messaging the club's instagram page (@stuyhouseplants). We also hope to get more people into growing plants as a hobby, providing much needed stress relief from the many academic stressors at Stuy. Our field trips to various parks and botanical gardens will both provide education and a break from the day to day Stuy grind. Additionally, we want to create a close community within the club as everybody shares their experiences in the shared hobby. This community will hopefully be fostered further by our various bi-weekly meetings and field trips. We also plan to occasionally hold cutting swaps/giveaways during our regular meetings where members can both share and obtain new cuttings and expand their plant collections.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions are relatively open. Positions will be granted based primarily on the applicant's personal interest in the club and time they are willing to dedicate to the club, rather than solely on prior plant experience. Leadership positions can be requested either by emailing one of the current leaders or by personal messaging the club's instagram page. Members in positions of leadership will be expected to help out with procedures such as advertisement, general meeting holding, digital administration, social media maintenance, etc. on a push and pull type basis. Leadership positions held by members graduating in the next year will be left to an election. This election will be held in the previous June prior to regents week. Available positions will be posted / emailed to club members and anybody interested who has been involved actively as a member for at least 3 months will be considered in the election (held digitally through a google form). If current leaders fail to honor their commitment to the position, or act inappropriately in relation to the club, either a majority consensus of the members or of the club leaders, will lead to demotion or banning, depending on the specific scenario.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Houseplant and Botany is unique because we cater more to members' hands-on experiences. Specifically, our club structure allows for members to walk away with their own plant(s), experience growing them, and general knowledge for the future. Additionally, we're able to be very beginner friendly while still creating an enjoyable activity for those with more experience. This is because our meetings will follow a more open social structure, rather than a simple presentation or a lecture.

