Mission Statement:
StuySky explores and discusses interesting phenomena, concepts and recent events in astronomy/astrophysics and meteorology in a relaxed environment.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings will be held 2-4 times a month on Wednesdays.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
This club's purpose is to discuss and raise awareness about interesting discoveries, old and new, in astronomy and climate science. In addition, it intends to explain techniques used in these fields and to make some of its own observations. Some meetings will review the basic physics, while some will focus on more complicated phenomena. It hopes to do several group projects (e.g. observation trips, projects involving programming, projects involving public data, etc.) which will be selected by our members by a vote. Members will not be required to do anything for the club, and will be encouraged to research interesting topics and present them in an engaging manner, or participate in group projects. It will also host fun prediction games like "binary or single object", “spot the observational bias”, and "predict the weather", and possibly (if members elect to do so) create an internet publication. Also, it will keep up-to-date with the fields by discussing upcoming and current events in these fields, such as hurricanes, local weather, or imminent syzygies.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Members will have the opportunity to discuss important scientific fields. Astronomy, climate science and meteorology are all fields that are critical to the future of the human race. Astronomy helps protect us from disasters like asteroids and solar flares, and will allow people to plot the course of exploration and colonization in the coming millennia. Climate science helps us understand what the one percent are doing to our environment right now through climate change, and how it will change. Meteorology protects human lives by allowing us to predict where devastating storms will be, and where to evacuate. Discussing these topics with their peers could help them improve their communication skills. Members will also have the opportunity to hear from guest speakers. This could enable them to learn about these fields, a potential career path, and/or current research. The club will also work on projects relating to astronomy and climate. The topics will be chosen collectively by the club. These projects could include programming, because both astronomy and climate involve large amounts of data. Students will have the opportunity to work on these projects, which could benefit the scientific world. This club may also begin giving weather forecasts to the student body, and/or raise funding to set up an amateur weather station at Stuyvesant. This will give students detailed advance notice on weather events across the city, which will help them prepare for or plan future activities. Members of the club may get the chance to see stars and planets in greater detail through telescopes, which is normally difficult due to New York City’s notoriously polluted skies. Observation nights may be planned later in the year. StuySky gives students interested in astronomy/astrophysics and/or meteorology the opportunity to network with similarly interested students.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Currently, due to the club's small size, the only leadership positions are the three co-presidents. Future student leaders will be selected by the current student leaders, but as the club grows in size, more democratic methods may become more realistic. Co-presidents remain in office until they either graduate or choose to step down. The year before a club official intends to step down, they will select a club member to be a "leader in training"; this member will replace them the following year. As the club expands, new leadership positions will be introduced. Potential positions may include social outreach, treasurer, and a "secretary" for organizational needs. With the introduction or replacement of leadership positions, members and non-members will be invited to submit applications to the co-presidents and any other preexisting relevant student leaders. Qualifying applicants will be interviewed by any/all of the aforementioned student leaders, after which a final applicant will be selected for the position. Non-co-president student leaders also remain in office until they either graduate or choose to step down. Members must maintain a safe and welcoming environment for each other. Hateful behavior is not tolerated and if it persists, membership will be revoked, regardless of any position of power. In addition, members are expected to contribute to the club in some manner. A consistent absence from club meetings and/or apparent lack of interest in the club may result in membership being revoked, on a case-by-case basis. Impeachment will be considered if any of the previous statements (beginning with “Hateful behavior…” and ending with “case-by-case basis”) become applicable, or if there are other repeated complaints regarding someone in a leadership position. The impeachment process is as follows: All members are welcome to submit complaints regarding any student leader to any other student leader. The subject of the complaint will be addressed. If the issue persists, or a large quantity of complaints are filed against a student leader, the position of the student leader will be reevaluated. All other student leaders will vote whether to remove the student leader in question. The student leader in question may not vote. If a student leader is removed from their position, they may choose to remain a member of the club. The election process will follow to replace the student leader.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club is unique for its focus on astronomy, climate science, and meteorology, which do not already have their own club. Although other clubs/activities may have opportunities to discuss these topics, like certain sections of SciOly, our club is the only club that does so in a relaxed, no-stakes environment. It is a friendly environment for students to learn and discuss phenomena having to do with the sky - hence, “StuySky”. It discusses astronomy and climate news, facts, and topics, and it may even have weather forecasting competitions. It also may release weather forecasts and have observational nights in addition to these discussions, which will give members a unique experience.

