Mission Statement:
Stuy Open Gallery offers students the opportunity to collectively plan an end-of-year gallery to commemorate the artwork of club members.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Throughout the year, meetings will take place once a week, depending on member availability. As spring approaches, Stuy Open Gallery will meet 1-2 times per week to plan the gallery event.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Open Gallery is a creative hub for those eager to make art in a relaxed atmosphere. Regardless of artistic talent, preferred art medium, or art style, everyone is welcome to join and create art together in this club! Members can choose to attend meetings however often they'd like to; they get out of it what they put into it. Members may come to weekly meetings to create collective mini-exhibitions for the gallery, or their own personal portfolios. There is much freedom to be explored in this club. Artists will build on each other's ideas and find solace in the art of creating for creation's sake. In this club, members will gain valuable experience with working with others in the art field. As spring approaches, members will work together to plan a completely in-person showcase somewhere in the Stuyvesant building. Group collaboration will be essential to create funding, awareness, and the pieces for the gallery. In addition, members will also have the opportunity to collaborate with out-of-school organizations in order to further showcase their work.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy Open Gallery benefits both the members of the club as well as other students, who might not even be interested in art! By installing a public art gallery in our school, students who have never had exposure to the arts are able to enjoy the creations of their peers and gain valuable insight into the world of art. As for members, Stuy Open Gallery is a safe space where artists of Stuyvesant can come together and discuss inspirations, aspirations, and struggles. Members of Stuy Open Gallery will forge social connections through team-building art exercises and collaboration, giving artists of Stuyvesant a chance to come together once a week and put aside academic pressures. Furthermore, the limited art classes offered at Stuyvesant are always in high demand, so it is critical to offer highly academically-focused students the opportunities to create, destress, and gain recognition for their often overlooked skills. The arts are involved in critical thinking skills, problem-solving and stress reduction. This is needed more than ever as we manage the complexities of this world. Plus, access to free materials eliminates the financial obstacles that many student artists encounter when starting a routine art practice. At Stuyvesant, many receive validation through high grades. Stuy Open Gallery will give students the ability to gain gratification from something tangible, like their art pieces and the gallery they put together as a collective.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The three leadership positions are the President, Art Director, and Secretary/Gallery Director. The Art Director guides each member with their art-making experience, the Gallery Director/Secretary assists with the logistics of the gallery and out-of-school collaborations, and the president oversees both of these factors. Each person appointed to their respected position will hold it until they graduate (this is to ensure that a sense of consistency is instilled) or need to be impeached. If oppressive or unfair behavior from a leader is displayed, a civil discussion will be held with all members of the club. After a conversation, there with be a vote where each member will cast if they want the person to be impeached or not. As for the transfer of leadership after a director graduates, there with be applications posted publicly via Stuy Open Gallery social media accounts. To apply for the Art Director position, there will be a Google Form with questions about art techniques, and applicants will receive the opportunity to upload an art portfolio. To apply for the Gallery Director position, the questions on the Google Form will be more primarily oriented around experience with leadership and organization. For either of these positions, one does not need to be in the club before applying, and anyone from Stuyvesant who is interested is welcome to get the position. In order to be selected for president, one must already have been in the club and fill out questions relevant to both the Art Director and Gallery Director positions, as the President handles both of these matters.

What makes this activity unique?:
Although art and creative clubs exist at Stuyvesant, none offer an opportunity for artwork to be shown in a public, physical space easily accessible to the rest of the Stuyvesant community. It is very evident that the halls of Stuyvesant prioritize recognition of STEM achievement. A truly inclusive learning environment would celebrate all subjects, including visual arts, as an area of student progress. Stuy Open Gallery is also unique because it gives each member complete freedom of what they wish to put on display. There are no externally regulating criteria. The gallery is curated by students for students.

