Mission Statement:
Stuy Horror Club aims to facilitate conversations and deep dives into the horror genre in many different aspects including books, games, and films.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meetings will consistently be held mostly on Fridays, up to every other week, maybe less frequent or more depending on upcoming holidays or planned events.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Horror Club hopes to create a community for horror enthusiasts and scaredy-cats alike, so that they can share their thoughts and opinions with other like-minded individuals about the genre. Horror can seem overwhelming to some, but there is much more to the genre than just gore and scares- Stuy Horror Club not only aims to de-stigmatize horror, but also provide a safe space for those interested to express themselves free of judgement. The club intends to host a variety of fun activities open to everyone, like book discussions, movie nights and reviews, guest speakers and horror-themed games! There will also be an educational aspect to the club, such as opportunities to analyze the psychology of fear, break down common tropes within media, and explore the history behind famous horror icons. The club is very collaborative, and will need active participation from members involved to ensure that these activities can proceed smoothly. Members are expected to attend meetings regularly, and demonstrate appropriate behavior when doing so.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Horror Club can encourage discussion about educational topics as well as casual. Members can relieve stress through fun activities or explore interesting topics that may spark further curiosity. Others can push themselves outside of their comfort zones while being surrounded by a supportive and enthusiastic group. It also provides a space for those passionate about horror to talk to others of the same mind and not feel awkward or scared of being judged. On top of that, the club is an opportunity to find out more about different perspectives regarding your favorite movies, books or games. It can also just be a great way to meet new people and find a new hobby! Horror is not a genre often explored in schools, although it offers a lot of interesting prospects that may appear across different works. For example, Brahm Stoker was inspired by real life historical figure Vlad the Impaler for his famous novel “Dracula”! Horror club can be the place for those curious to learn more about how horror exists in our every day world. Horror contains levels, and is more than just jump scares. There are different ways to become more inspired, which can support creative expressions beyond the club too.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Interviews for leadership positions will be conducted by the President and/or Vice-President. Leadership positions will be decided based off of the previously displayed commitment to contributing to the club. If those in leadership positions are unable to complete executive tasks reliably, do not attend meetings, and/or are found to be behaving inappropriately according to guidelines, they will be warned once and then removed upon their next infraction. All club members reserve the right to apply for leadership positions. Presidency and Vice-Presidency will be handed off (upon graduation of the previous) by vote. If anyone in any leadership position is found to be in violation of the following established rules:

1. Harassment of others is not tolerated for any reason. 
2. You must be respectful of everyone’s opinions 
3. Use of hateful or inappropriate language will not be tolerated.
4. Any glamorization of real life tragic events (ie. Murder, assault, serious injuries, etc.) and/or idolatry of violent criminals will not be tolerated out of respect for the people involved and fellow club members. 

They will be removed from their positions indefinitely, enforced by other senior members.

What makes this activity unique?:
There are currently no clubs about the horror genre at Stuyvesant, despite the fact that it is a very complex genre with many diverse aspects to explore. Horror itself presents as a niche interest that is not as widely appreciated by the public- Horror Club aims to be a place for passionate horror lovers and curious new comers to have easy access to information on the genre. Additionally, Horror Club presents unique opportunities to engage in activities like interviews with guest speakers, exclusive film screenings, and discussion groups.

