Mission Statement:
StuyPong is a casual table tennis club! Join if you want to improve your game or just for fun!

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will have a few meetings at the start of the year, and a few times per week after the table tennis season ends

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyPong is meant for recreational table tennis. We usually set up one to three tables on the first floor near the pool or outside the cafeteria after school. We can teach players many things such as but not limited to how to serve, how to add spin, and how to loop or even what a loop is. You can get pointers from people from both the boys and girls team on how to improve table tennis technique and/or just play around for fun. This is a good chance to see if you want to try out for the winter PSAL table tennis team. The girls and boys team have been the best in the city for many years and we are hoping to win this upcoming season. This club is meant to be very chill and low commitment. We hope to make it a place where everyone from table tennis team members to recreational players can just hang out and share a hobby.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will benefit Stuyvesant by providing a means and chance for people to play a popular and very fun sport/hobby. Many people have tables in their basements and we give that same experience by just playing around and having a nice time. In addition to that, we can also be very competitive and practice very high level techniques and skill sets that average players wouldn't else have the chance to learn and spectate to. Many of the team members have been playing for many years and have table tennis ratings from tournaments that demonstrate their skill and experience. StuyPong provides these players a chance to play outside of official practice. Many players have never been introduced to table tennis as a sport, but rather as a beginner game for fun. We want to show and introduce players to a totally different, highly skilled sport that they've only probably seen on YouTube. Current team members and experienced players would be able to sharpen up and improve their skills while new and beginner players can learn and be introduced to new techniques. This club will not only demonstrate Stuyvesant's athletic domination, but also its broad scope of clubs. Ultimately, we want Stuyvesant to have a place where people can play, learn, and practice table tennis.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leaders are chosen by the recommendation of the past years’ leaders and by majority approval of all the members. At the end of year, graduating leaders and others will mutually agree on next years' people to take charge of the club. Leaders should have an open schedule to allow for weekly meetings in accordance to all the members' schedules. They should be able to notify members and non-members alike about meeting dates. Without leaders organizing times to play, the club will be very dry and inconsistent which is not what we want. They should also set up and put away the tables properly making sure that's just how they left them. They should make sure no one harms the equipment and all equipment is used properly. Most significant though, is that they should be very friendly and provide a wholesome environment for everyone who comes along to our club. If a present leader does not meet these requirements, or if any other leader or club member has an objection to this leader's actions or general behavior, they will be given a single warning. If again this leader does not cooperate, the other leaders will have a group discussion and come to a agreement on whether or not this leader should be impeached or removed from the club. All in all, a leader should take ownership of equipment and club organization.

What makes this activity unique?:
Our organization is unique because we are the only organization that allows people to casually play table tennis. We provide people the opportunity to just hang out and chill with their friends while playing ping pong. Our team members don't have to go to expensive official table tennis clubs and new members wouldn't have to go out of their way to simply try out a new sport. No other organization in Stuyvesant can compare to what we have to offer for the sport of table tennis.

