Mission Statement:
Provide a supportive and fun environment to learn computer science and help close the gender gap in computer science.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We have weekly meetings throughout the year on Fridays from 3:35-5:00 pm. However, we do have trips that may occur on any day throughout the week and take place outside of Stuyvesant.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
💫 Skill-building: We want to expose members to a wide variety of beginner friendly topics in computer science and teach them about the endless paths one can take with computer science. Our weekly meetings, taught by student mentors, cover lessons on topics ranging from web development to data science to cybersecurity. We teach lessons from the beginner level to the advanced/intermediate level.
📣 Presenting opportunities: Weekly lessons aren't the only thing club members experience! We are committed to organizing events with members of the STEM community, from guest speakers to field trips. Trips include but are not limited to the Girls Who Code Code Fair, panels at different tech companies, and networking events! We also share outside of school CS opportunities that members may be interested in and provide application advice for such opportunities!
🏘 Community: Girls Who Code @ Stuy isn't just a club—it's a community for girls to learn, bond and be inspired by each other. We're here to support everyone interested in trying out computer science. We will facilitate this by placing members into small mentoring groups with mentors to bond and receive whatever help they might need.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity benefits Stuyvesant by creating a supportive environment for females in computer science. Although the statistics at Stuy are slightly better than nationwide, there is still a huge drop in the retention rate for females progressing from Intro to AP Computer Science. Research has shown that effective mentorship early on for aspiring female computer scientists can significantly increase their desire and confidence in staying in this typically male-dominated field. The main goal of this club is to provide that mentorship for many females pursuing computer science for the first time. We host workshops, Q and A sessions, and field trips to expose girls to computer science beyond the classroom and hopefully, inspire them to consider computer science as a career. In addition, Girls Who Code is a great way for girls to network with each other and with other successful computer scientists to establish some ground in the industry early on. We also hope that having upperclassmen Student Leaders, many who have succeeded in the Stuyvesant computer science courses, guiding them through the process will encourage them to keep taking computer science courses throughout their Stuy careers. In short, the purpose of Girls Who Code is to benefit the minority of females in computer science and close the gender gap in STEM fields overall.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The club board is split into three positions: presidents, student mentors and outreach managers. Presidents oversee all aspects of the club, which include scheduling meetings, developing lessons and teaching during meetings. Student mentors create lesson plans about CS topics, present lessons to members, help the members as needed with projects/exercises and provide mentorship in small groups and one-on-one. Outreach managers perform all necessary outreach for the club, which includes organizing guest speakers, panels, trips and other event opportunities. Student mentors and outreach managers are appointed before each school year begins through a written application and an interview with the club presidents, and they do not need to have experience in the club. Club presidents for the following year are appointed during the Spring semester through a more rigorous written application and interview with the current presidents, and they must be dedicated board members. Board members are expected to complete all tasks in a timely manner, maintain a good academic standing (85+ average) and be present at all club meetings (with the exception of excused absences). If a board member fails to complete their tasks and/or is excessively absent at meetings, they will be given a warning. If their actions continue to be unsatisfactory, they will meet with the club presidents and club faculty advisor to discuss the situation and may be impeached.

What makes this activity unique?:
Girls Who Code stands out as a uniquely transformative organization by focusing its unwavering commitment solely on bridging the gender gap in technology. Through an inclusive community, project-based learning, mentorship by industry professionals, and an advocacy-driven approach, Girls Who Code not only equips young women with essential technical skills but also empowers them with a sense of purpose, fostering a diverse pipeline of future technology leaders who are prepared to tackle real-world challenges and drive positive change in the tech industry and beyond.

