Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Papercrafts aims to spread the joy of papercraft by working together to create awe-inspiring papercrafts.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings are held on Fridays, and we plan to meet either once a month or once every two weeks. Club meetings will be held around 3:45 and will last for approximately an hour.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of Stuyvesant Papercrafts is to spread the joy of papercrafts to the students of Stuyvesant. Papercraft, or 3D paper modeling, is the art of cutting paper out and strategically gluing paper pieces into 3d models. There is much variety in what you can choose to create, with papercrafts ranging from dragons to life-sized hummingbirds, or from skyscrapers to cathedrals. Members will gather to work on either individual papercrafts or club projects together. Stuyvesant Papercrafts is a club where students of all skill levels can meet to enjoy each other’s company as they work on papercrafts. Whether you’re a total beginner or an experienced papercrafter, Stuyvesant Papercrafts hopes to provide you with a place where you can improve on your papercraft skills, and have fun in the process! Stuy Papercrafts usually hosts monthly or bimonthly themed crafting sessions based on the season or upcoming holidays to keep things exciting! For example, members may create flower-themed papercrafts for Spring! As a member, you'll have the chance to create a wide variety of papercrafts.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant Papercrafts provides students of Stuyvesant High School a place to relax and create papercrafts however they prefer (independently or with others). Through simple, yet soothing acts like cutting paper and gluing pieces of paper together, members will have the chance to destress after a long week of school. Papercrafting is extremely rewarding! As the only club in Stuyvesant High School that focuses on papercraft, members will be able to approach the art of papercraft however they wish to do so. In the process, members of Stuyvesant Papercrafts will develop patience for doing things that they enjoy while improving their abilities to comprehend diagrams and visualize objects in 3D. 

Members will be given the option to take their finished papercrafts home or donate their models to the school. One of Stuyvesant Papercrafts’ main goals is to help decorate the school with a multitude of colorful, fun papercrafts. In the last school year, Stuy Papercrafts contributed to several fun papercraft displays in the school library! Ultimately, Stuyvesant Papercrafts seeks to give the students of Stuyvesant a supportive community where they can develop their papercraft skills at their own pace. There is no pressure for members to attend all club meetings because members have the opportunity to create different crafts at every meeting!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The club president and club vice presidents work together to choose the next club leaders. Leadership positions will be given according to dedication to the club and experience level. Priority will be given to members who consistently come to club meetings. To apply for a leadership position, applicants will fill out a form asking for their motive for acquiring a leadership position, what they enjoyed and did not enjoy about the Stuyvesant Papercrafts club, and their visions for the future of the club. All applicants will be made aware of the responsibilities of carrying a leadership position, including deciding on the club’s present and future projects with the other leaders, being present in all meetings, and helping any members with questions. If a leader does not come to meetings for more than two months in a row, the club president will remove them from their position. Similarly, if a leader fails to carry out the responsibilities mentioned above, the club president will remove them from their position. If half or more than half of the club vice presidents agree that the club president is neglecting club leadership responsibilities, they as well will be able to impeach the club president from their position.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant Papercrafts is unique because it is the only club in Stuyvesant that deals with papercrafts. Although papercraft may seem like origami at first glance, the two art forms are completely unique. While origami focuses on folding paper, papercraft focuses on cutting and gluing paper, not folding. Stuy Papercrafts is the only space in Stuyvesant High School where students are able to explore the world of papercrafts with the help of others who are already deeply invested in papercrafts.

