Mission Statement:
To provide recognition and opportunity based on mathematical skill.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Mu Alpha Theta will meet at least once per month, but no more than once per week. Meetings will occur primarily on Mondays and Thursdays.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of this organization is to maintain the chapter of Mu Alpha Theta at Stuyvesant, which is the National High School and Two-Year College Mathematics Honor Society. This recognizes students who excel at mathematics in Stuyvesant, and allows for students to participate in mathematics-related events and competitions. Mu Alpha Theta provides an opportunity for a dedicated group of members to gather in meetings to discuss mathematical events and to compete in regional or national math contests. Mu Alpha Theta will also work with teachers to help run math AIS sessions, encouraging members to assist at those sessions with the goal of helping other students improve in math. Outstanding achievements by students are rewarded with awards, scholarships, and grants to students or to their faculty advisor. Through this club, not only are students able to interact with others who enjoy math within their school, but students are connected across the country in a national convention organized by the main chapter of Mu Alpha Theta.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Mu Alpha Theta works to provide avid math students with opportunities that they would not have without the club. At Stuyvesant there is currently no other club like Mu Alpha Theta, which helps such a broad spectrum of eager students. Some of Mu Alpha Theta meetings will be outside of school, such as in museums, which will expose members to new fields and perspectives of math. Members can also meet members from other chapters and share ideas; this is one of the biggest benefits of Mu Alpha Theta. Mu Alpha Theta is a large organization with chapters throughout the nation, which will allow Stuyvesant students to connect with students with the same passion from across the United States. This club ensures that all members are dedicated and will continue to further their mathematical knowledge; at meetings, members learn not only from club leaders but also from each other, which brings everyone in the club up. Mu Alpha Theta’s involvement in math AIS tutoring also helps students struggling in math, giving those students more support and thus helping them improve and explore more math. Finally, members of Mu Alpha Theta are eligible for special awards, scholarships, and grants provided by the organization. Thus, Mu Alpha Theta promotes the enjoyment of mathematics.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Stuyvesant Mu Alpha Theta chapter has four leadership positions: 2 Co-Presidents, 1 VP of Internal Affairs, and 1 VP of External Affairs.

The officers for each year are chosen at the end of the previous year through an election by all non-graduating club members. With approval from the faculty advisor, non-graduating officers will be guaranteed the position they had in previous years; however, if they choose to seek a different or higher office, they, as regular members, would be chosen on an application basis. By running for a higher or different office, candidates renounce their claim to the position they had the previous year (e.g. if a student was VP of Internal Affairs the previous year and they decide to run for Co-President the next year, they are not guaranteed their position of VP Internal. If they lose the election for Co-President, they cannot return to their previous office.) All current non-graduating members can apply for an officer position, which is then voted on by all sophomores and juniors in the club. The candidate with a plurality of the votes is elected to the position. At the discretion of the faculty advisor, a prospective applicant can be vetoed for any reason. Similarly, the faculty advisor also has the power to break ties in elections (the faculty advisor can also choose to break ties with runoff elections).

If a member decides that an officer (either a President or Vice President) is not fulfilling their role, they can bring it up at a meeting. If another member seconds the challenge, then the officers, excluding the one being charged, will vote on whether or not he should be removed. If there is a unanimous decision for removal, then the officer will be removed from office, otherwise, the officer will be able to keep their position. The agreement of both Presidents and the Faculty Advisor also has the power to remove VPs. In the case of a removal, an officer can appoint a member; if at least half of the officers approve the appointment, the appointee will become an officer. In the event that a President is removed, one of the other officers will take their place, potentially with a vote among all members if necessary, and a replacement officer will be appointed.

What makes this activity unique?:
Mu Alpha Theta Stuy is unique because there is no other branch of the national math honor society at Stuyvesant, and this society provides a unique opportunity to recognize students who excel in the field of mathematics. It is only fitting that these students receive some honor for their hard work. This club will also broaden the outreach programs of the Stuyvesant Math Team by including more students in various competitive math areas and introducing them to new math topics.

