Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Alumni Mentoring Program aims to connect Stuyvesant alumni with current students to aid personal growth.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Different cohorts meet on different days of the week and workshops take place on Saturdays. Students attend anywhere from 1 to 3 meetings every month; workshops are held around once a month. Students are expected to show up to all cohort sessions and workshops.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Alumni Mentoring Program aims to prepare students for success in the real world, specifically through helping with career exploration and the development of professional skills. Students are placed in a cohort consisting of 7-10 Stuyvesant alumni. Each student is paired with an alum, who will act as a mentor to the student. Students attend 5-6 cohort sessions (led by a mentor leader and a student leader) and multiple workshops throughout the school year. The program exposes students to a wide range of skills that cannot be obtained from classes alone, such as resume writing, public speaking, interview preparation, understanding the college application, college essay ideation, as well as general life skills. The program also organizes an Industry Panel, deep-diving into careers in finance, medicine, law, engineering, computer science, and entrepreneurship, among others where students are given the chance to learn more about different careers in the field(s) they are interested in. They gain diverse perspectives from the mentors, learning from their experiences in high school to college to the workforce and beyond.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant High School is filled with brilliant students who are excited to take courses that align with their interests. However, most of these students do not have much exposure to skills that are essential both in and after high school. The Stuyvesant Alumni Mentoring Program prepares students beyond just taking rigorous courses and creates bright students who take initiative and know how to excel in life. The Stuyvesant Alumni Mentoring Program transforms students into being more knowledgeable about many things: resume writing (students will learn how to market themselves), public speaking (students will present in front of an audience to improve this skill), interviewing skills (many alumni have a lot of experience with interviewing students from top colleges, so they provide a valuable source of information on how to be a good interviewee), the college application process (alumni often share their experiences and assist their mentees with this), college essay writing (alumni will give students feedback on their writing), and different careers that one may pursue (there are alumni in every field, STEM or arts and humanities, and it is easy to connect with them). By offering important information and insight, the Stuyvesant Alumni Mentoring Program ultimately creates students who are strong academically, socially, and professionally.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Stuyvesant Alumni Mentoring Program has two types of leadership positions: Senior Student Leaders and Student Leaders. Both the Senior Student Leaders and Student Leaders are chosen by the program directors and founders (past Stuyvesant alum). Multiple Student Leaders are selected each year, and they have various responsibilities including recruiting mentees for the program and managing a cohort alongside their Mentor Leader (an alum) by taking attendance, keeping track of mentee assignment completion, facilitating cohort sessions, sending emails to mentees and mentors, and regularly communicating with their Mentor Leader. A student must apply and go through an interview process in order to become a Student Leader. A Senior Student Leader must be a former mentee who was a Student Leader in the previous year. The Senior Student Leaders work directly alongside the program director and act as a guide to the Student Leaders. Students holding leadership positions must have excellent attendance, complete cohort assignments, and display dedication to the program. Impeachment protocols follow a 3-strike system: if leaders fail to show up at a meeting without notice, do not keep track of assignments or complete tasks, or fail to communicate with their mentor leader, it will count as a strike. After 3 strikes, impeachment protocols will be activated and brought to the program directors.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Stuyvesant Alumni Mentoring Program allows students to hear about the experiences of many different Stuyvesant alumni and network with them. At the same time, they get to develop soft skills that are often not taught in schools. As attested to by the program heads, these are the skills that will be important later in life, allowing students to learn to become leaders who know how to effectively communicate with others. The program consists of many workshops where students can work side by side with alumni. One example is the college essay editing workshop where students prepare a college essay draft and the draft is then reviewed by the alumni. Overall, the program genuinely provides each student with opportunities to step outside of their comfort zone in order to grow and receive invaluable insight from their mentors.

