Mission Statement:
ASPIRA aims to create a friendly and welcoming environment where Hispanics and non-Hispanics can learn/discuss important race-related topics.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings are hosted once a week, and occasionally we will have joint meetings with the Black Students League.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Because Stuyvesant has a very small percentage of Hispanic students, we hope to make our voices heard. The purpose of ASPIRA is to educate members about the Hispanic community within Stuyvesant and outside of it. We aim to address any stereotypes and stigmas around the Hispanic community while also answering any questions members may have. Meetings are a place where members can share their experience(s) at Stuyvesant, and in general. Every member has the right to voice their own opinions and feelings during our meetings, since it is a safe space. We encourage others to respect one another and uplift each other. Members may also collaborate with leadership and give input on what topic they would like to discuss for future meetings. ASPRIA makes an effort to make our Hispanic peers feel like they are at home and are comfortable at Stuyvesant. Using initiatives such as monthly Talk Circles Around Race (TCARs), celebrating heritage months, working with the Black Student League, and social media campaigns, the league spreads awareness among Hispanic and non-Hispanic students across various communities.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant’s Hispanic Student Association serves as a community of Hispanic students at Stuyvesant and those who want to support the Hispanic community. A small percentage of Stuyvesant students are Hispanic, and it is crucial to have a space for social and cultural interaction between them. Additionally, ASPIRA discusses important issues facing the community (border control, racism in education, or the under-representation of Hispanic students at Stuyvesant, etc), and offers education around these issues. Some of these issues are not talked about during school, so our club brings awareness to them. The Stuyvesant community is welcome to join the club or learn about its mission through monthly TCARs, Talk Circle Around Race events, where all students can come to discuss current and relevant topics concerning race. ASPIRA spreads general information around Stuy’s community, addressing common stereotypes and stigmas, and celebrating National Hispanic Heritage Month which is from September 15 to October 15, in order to recognize Hispanic heroes and important figures that we may or may not know already. Joining ASPIRA is an excellent way to discuss current events and important issues, as well as celebrate and learn about culture. We also like to have a lot of fun and it is a great way to destress after school. Students from the Hispanic Students Association will work closely with the students from the Black Student League by engaging in weekly meetings on Wednesdays with both clubs.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership is transferred at the end of the Spring semester, once school is coming to an end. Any member may apply via Google form for positions of leadership, and each application will be reviewed by current presidents. The criteria for acceptance is fluid, but applicants must show initiative, a strong desire to work with ASPIRA, and have enough time to carry out the organizational and functional responsibilities associated with running a club. Members should make other students feel at home—not only within club meetings, but also outside of club meetings during their classes and other extracurriculars. During club meetings, students should be respectful of the ideas, backgrounds, and identities of those around them. They must give people time to share their thoughts and be an active listener to those talking. Faculty members typically attend our meetings and share their thoughts as well as advise us from an adult point of view. Members should be attentive to what they have to provide to the students.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant’s Hispanic Students Association is a unique cultural club that 
emphasizes and focuses on Hispanic voices alongside important matters within the Hispanic community. This is rather important as Hispanic students make up less than 3% of the Stuyvesant population. Joining ASPIRA will open your eyes to a new world and as well make you a part of our big family. We aim to spread awareness and as well educate those inside and outside of Stuyvesant. It is also an educational club that spreads much needed awareness inside and outside of Stuyvesant.

