Mission Statement:
StuyWhy aims to foster discussion between students about philosophical and psychological ideas to expand upon one's perspective of life.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, but we plan to meet at least twice a month. In the first meeting of the month, we plan to choose a topic for the next episode, work on improving the episodes, and choose who will be participating in the next episode. We will record the next episode in the second meeting, and it may either be held in person or online. We may have another meeting to discuss topics like we do in the podcast, but it will not be uploaded.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of StuyWhy is to encourage members to express their ideas and ideologies concerning contemporary and ancient patterns of thought through fostering a nonexclusive, diverse community. Members will have the opportunity to relate general philosophical thoughts and topics to that of ancient philosophers and how they’ve evolved compared to our modern society. By creating a space open to the collective input of all, we aspire to promote students interested in or curious about philosophy to share their own experiences and opinions while adding onto others and their own previous thought. Through meetings, we will break down generalized ideas and topics, such as love and politics, and discuss them in relation to other writers and philosophers, our modern world, and ultimately, ourselves. Members will be encouraged to put their ideas out into a safe space and to become more able in recognizing connections between points brought up within a normal discussion of ideas. Ultimately, StuyWhy hopes to allow members to become more open with their own ideas and encourage them to become more comfortable with the expression of themselves and their thoughts in front of others.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyWhy provides a platform for students to engage in discussions about philosophical ideas and ideas they do not have the chance to discuss in public. Through discussing with their peers and those responding through the podcast, students can develop a deeper understanding of themselves and the world around them. They can form connections with like-minded people and share their ideas with a larger audience. They will be able to find answers to questions they were unable to ask others, and even if they were, had to do it in a private environment. The club will provide students this safe and public place where they can discuss ideas they wish. Moreover, Students will have the opportunity to learn more about diverse cultures and beliefs. Additionally, participating in StuyWhy will allow students to enhance their communication and debate skills since they can articulate their viewpoints while engaging in constructive conversations. It will also give students an idea about podcasting and help them gain insight from not only fellow students at Stuyvesant but also anyone listening in. By extending academic inquiry beyond the classroom, StuyWhy allows students to explore unfamiliar topics and learn more in a supportive environment where they can safely express their ideas and opinions.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
StuyWhy consists of four leadership roles. All students who wish to receive a leadership position, excluding co-hosts, must have participated in at least six episodes of the podcast and six in-person meetings. The students will then be interviewed by the current leadership team. After interviewing the candidates, the current leadership team will choose the most probable candidate to take the position. These positions consist of the marketing director, the secretary, and the editor. The marketing director(s) focuses on expanding and engaging members on both the podcast and club. They are in charge of making flyers, advertising, and are in charge of the Instagram account. The secretary will keep track of who’s attending meetings, both for and to prepare for the podcast. They will also keep track of the ideas that members come up with. The editor is in charge of editing the podcast after recording and must meet the deadline set by the co-host. The co-hosts must have participated in at least ten episodes and meetings. Candidates will be approved by the current leadership team before the election, where active members of the club will vote for new co-hosts. The co-hosts are in charge of keeping the podcast afloat, holding monthly meetings, and getting an episode out every month. Students can lose their leadership position if they fail to complete their position’s responsibilities or if they start to miss many meetings without an excuse. If a student wishes to quit their position, a meeting will be held to decide upon someone to replace their position.

What makes this activity unique?:
What makes StuyWhy unique is that StuyWhy is the only club in Stuyvesant centered around philosophy.  Since philosophy is not generally discussed among high school students, the club itself expands philosophy to a previously untapped demographic unlike other clubs. Therefore, the club uniquely provides the opportunity for students to discuss and debate the higher level concepts that shape the way people think and shape society as we know it. By engaging in this activity, students will organically expand their knowledge and perspective which strengthens one’s critical thinking skills and encourages understanding of others viewpoints. The club also uniquely encourages members to be inquisitive within a humanities context which often is overshadowed by the fact that Stuyvesant is largely STEM based. Finally, StuyWhy aims to be extremely welcoming to students with various levels of experience in philosophy thus removing a barrier for students to get involved. It also provides students with an opportunity to participate in the club’s podcast.

