Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Medicine, Epidemiology, and Disease (StuyMED) aims to serve students interested in pursuing medicine, epidemiology, and disease research.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
StuyMED holds bi-monthly meetings after school, typically on Monday's

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyMED will invite professionals in various facets of medicine, epidemiology, and disease (MED) to speak about their experiences in these fields, recount their motivation for pursuing their careers, and offer advice to and answer the inquiries of aspiring high school students. Interactive presentations led by the leadership board will create a more immersive learning environment. With the aim of establishing a supportive fellowship, members will participate in group case studies that build community, develops teamwork skills, and gives members in-depth looks at specific pathologies. In addition, StuyMED aims to host skills labs, in which a physician or club leader will instruct students how to suture and get them interested in the surgical aspect of medicine. StuyMED will house opportunities for students to network in their community of peers as well as in the community of well-achieved speakers to find internships, volunteer opportunities, programs, and other resources that can further their interests in MED and garner a greater understanding of the multifaceted career option. Ultimately, StuyMED provides a place for inquiry, mentorship, and community for those willing to explore outside of a classroom environment.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyMED will facilitate a supportive community of students interested in pursuing careers in the MED fields and inspire members to explore outside of a classroom environment. Members will be able to hear about a variety of careers in the MED fields from professionals, giving them a detailed look at what these careers entail. These presentations will also help members better understand the path taken to a career in MED, guiding them in taking courses and participating in activities that would be of benefit to their career goals. The Society will also aid students in finding these extracurricular opportunities. Skills labs will give members a chance to learn more about surgery and participate in hands-on activities they may not have the chance to try in the classroom. Additionally, we seek to simulate situations that professionals in MED fields have to handle that may not involve any STEM skills, such as dealing with a patient’s family or presenting research and cases to panels. Having these aspects in a club along with presenting first-hand experiences from those in the field will prepare members for what else this vast field may throw at them. With StuyMED, students will have a headstart into the MED fields and what lies ahead.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Meetings will be held at least once a month. If a member cannot attend a meeting, they must fill out an Excuse form. If a member misses three meetings or has two unexcused absences, they will be dismissed from the club and lose access to meetings and other resources.

For appointment procedures, there will be an application process for a leadership position. Those who apply must fill out an application and attend an interview, and the leadership board will pick the next leaders. Vice Presidents serve for one year before moving on to the role of President unless the Presidents agree that one or both of the Vice President(s) are unfit for the role.

If any appointed leader fails to fulfill their responsibilities, the Club President(s) will first give a warning to the leader in question before removing them from their position, with agreement from other leaders with substantive power in the scenario. To impeach a President, there must be a unanimous agreement among other leaders.

What makes this activity unique?:
As the first club to focus on introducing the MED career paths to Stuyvesant students and the first to incorporate suturing labs, StuyMED makes it our priority to provide as much information as the club can to our members regarding the MED fields. StuyMED is the only club at Stuyvesant that gives students the chance to listen to MED professionals, participate in hands-on activities like suture labs, and collaborate with other students to research and present on different areas of medicine. These research presentations include case studies, giving members a more thorough understanding of real-life medical cases and research studies. The club is open to suggestions from members as to what types of speakers they are looking for and what activities they are interested in participating in. StuyMED is planning on expanding from suturing labs to hospital visits and shadowing opportunities, along with more interactive meetings among members to gain insight from fellow classmates.

