Mission Statement:
StuyPublish provides lessons and tips for the writing & publishing process to those who aspire to publish a story or add publishing to their resumes.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
This schedule will be decided around the beginning of the year, but there will be at least one meeting per month in-person!

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyPublish aims to share helpful writing tips, get as many students published online, and encourage the creation and self-publication of writing. The monthly lessons and contests offered by this activity will expose students to different styles and genres of writing as well as contests and publication opportunities for every type of writer of any skill level. Alongside with many writing strategies, each lesson has tips, techniques, and skills students can use to better their writing specifically for the contest or publication they wish to apply to. Members can take advantage of these writing opportunities and submit their own writing pieces, whether it be short poems or elaborate memoirs, for the chance to receive mentions, monetary rewards, certificates, or a place on the (most likely virtual) bookshelf! Ultimately, this activity aims to build confidence in young writers at Stuyvesant so they get experienced with publishing their work and carry on writing & publishing in the future!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Many students never publish their writing, no matter what or how good their writing is. StuyPublish will encourage its members to nourish their writing skills and step out of their comfort zones to showcase their work. Members benefit from receiving valuable publishing experience, such as writing for a specific audience to carry on sharing their writing with the world. In addition, other relevant writing skills will be provided and explained such as plot, character purpose, evoking the reader's emotion, and so on. Anything a contest may require, such as writing for a prompt, or in a specific genre, will be taught, and StuyPublish will provide members with overall suggestions as well as direct peer feedback on their writing through their contest lens upon request. The biggest benefit to students would be the addition of potential competitions or publications they’ve submitted or won onto their resumes, college applications, etc., as well as practical writing experience they can take with them beyond the high school experience and to have a basic understanding of publication for their future writing careers. This activity will also unite writers with a variety of skill sets to cheer each other on when pursuing writing opportunities, creating a writing community dedicated to getting their name out there.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
StuyPublish offers four types of positions: President, Vice President, Secretary, and Senior Manager. Any member can apply for a leadership position (when available) every semester. Together, the President and Vice President are responsible for selecting the best candidates for a position based on a member’s dedication (to the club & writing opportunities offered), skills relating to the position, and other factors. The President will also oversee the entire club, and, with the Vice President, put together engaging club lessons & peer edit members’ writing (upon request). The Secretary will be responsible for communicating with the members (including receiving members’ writing for editing) and leaders about anything relevant to the club. The Senior Manager will be responsible for club promotion as well as locating writing opportunities and updating socials with the President. If any leader is not completing their responsibilities or loses interest in the club, they may be demoted from their position through a strike system. The system involves a group meeting with all the leaders (including the leader who isn’t completing their responsibilities) to voice the issue in a constructive (solution-seeking) manner, and, if absolutely necessary, give the leader a strike. If a leader is going to be absent, they should let the Secretary or the President know, or they may receive a strike as well (emergencies are exempt). Strikes can only be issued if the majority of leaders (not including the student being issued the strike) vote for the strike. If the behavior continues, another strike can be issued. If a leader has received two strikes for absence or not being able to complete their responsibilities as a leader, they will be demoted to a member. However, if a member or a leader reports another student, member or leader, for bad behavior, such as disrupting the club meetings, being disrespectful, etc., a vote may be cast as to whether to remove the student from the club, with the majority having the final say. No strikes are applicable in the latter, and no vote may take place if a student is reported for personal reasons or made up reasons.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyPublish aims to improve a student’s writing specifically through the lens of special contests and opportunities they apply to, coming from experienced applicants. Both dedicated and new writers can find the motivation, support, and explanations writers need to start writing to publish, or discover writing opportunities for any genre. StuyPublish unites more than just writers, but writers who want to put their names out there, creating a supportive environment where sharing their work with the world is encouraged.

