Mission Statement:
The mission of Stuyvesant Spectrum is to provide a safe space for LGBTQ students and allies.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We meet once per week on Thursdays, with a break of 1-2 meetings off during finals and SING! season. Special events such as guest speaker talks, the Chosen Family Holiday Dinner, and the Pride Picnic may be held on other days of the week depending on member availability.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
In weekly meetings, Spectrum will discuss LGBTQ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Questioning) issues pertaining to groups all across the spectrums of sexuality
and gender, organize activities to increase awareness and support of the LGBTQ community in Stuyvesant, and provide opportunities for members to connect with each other and make friends. There will occasionally be organized activities and guest speakers, but overall the goal is to relax and have fun. This club is very low commitment - there is one meeting every week - but it is intended to be a place where students are free to be themselves and feel accepted. There is no bullying, gatekeeping, or shaming of any kind tolerated in Spectrum. In order to be more active in Stuyvesant Spectrum, students are encouraged to follow the Spectrum Instagram account, and contact a leader to be added to the Messenger group chat. Additionally, the Spectrum cabinet members are always available and happy to give advice.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant Spectrum helps students to make friends and to meet other members of the LGBTQ community. In weekly meetings and in the club
group chat, members will always feel supported, respected, and safe. In the Spectrum meetings, expect to play games, watch funny videos, and connect with
your friends. Also expect to take trips with the club and catch the occasional movie night where you get to vote on the movie! We’re also planning to have some meetings to just chat and make some crafts (clay charms, pride-themed bracelets, etc). Cabinet members are always available to give advice. Additionally, Spectrum organizes events for important LGBTQ dates. For instance, a fundraiser on the national day of silence to honors LGBTQ youth who have been the victims of hate crimes. Joining the club is also a good idea if you want to hear interesting guest lectures on a wide variety of topics, from sexual health, to current events, to LGBTQ representation in the media. If you wish, you can recommend a potential guest speaker to Spectrum leadership. Also, Spectrum leadership will continue the new tradition of a “Chosen Family Dinner” hosted near the start of winter break, meant as a “family dinner” for all those who may not feel entirely accepted at holiday family dinners at home. Simply put, Stuyvesant Spectrum provides a chill, low commitment club where students can meet new friends, participate in fun activities, and help make a difference in the Stuyvesant community. Plus, we sometimes have donuts!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Spectrum currently has a President and Vice President! Potential additional vice president(s) will be selected at the beginning of the school year through a process of recommendations and interviews. You can go to Presidents or VPs for advice on any subject, and to let you into the Facebook group or group chat. Other tentative leadership positions include Social Media manager for our Instagram account, and Director of Public Relations & Outreach. These would be selected through an application sent out to members of Spectrum. Spectrum cabinet members are expected to be able to defuse conflict and handle when a member is being disruptive. Be aware that cabinet members have no tolerance for bullying of any kind. Additionally, cabinet members will never be absent for more than three meetings in a row, so expect to get to know them very well. If a Spectrum cabinet member is absent for 4 weeks in a row, the rest of the cabinet members will vote to decide whether or not they will be impeached. If you are at all interested in joining the Spectrum Cabinet, simply be friendly! If a spot opens up after cabinet applications have already closed, the existing cabinet members will recommend new members or potential successors based on observed leadership skills and ability to get along with others. At such time, they will be contacted for an interview. Don't worry, the questions we ask are not difficult!

What makes this activity unique?:
Though great strides have been taken, LGBTQ youth still often feel isolated from their peers and fearful of identity-related harassment. Spectrum is dedicated to ensuring that no Stuyvesant student ever feels that way. This is a unique, open space for students to meet other members of the community without fear of judgment. Spectrum is solely focused on LGBTQ and intersectional issues and how they affect our daily lives, and determined to make Stuyvesant a more supportive, secure place.

