Mission Statement:
The Burmese Association's mission is to spread Burmese culture throughout Stuyvesant High School

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will be pretty lax but the frequency may increase as big events start to roll around the corner. Generally, we will meet every Thursday and may start happening on an additional day of the week if the situation calls for it.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
This association was created to bring all the Burmese of Stuy together as well as educate anybody curious about Myanmar's culture. This club will plan events and fundraisers inspired by traditional Burmese holidays and sell traditional Burmese food throughout the entire year. The members of this club will also volunteer in other Burmese traditional events if the club cannot find the time to organize its own. The club will also collaborate with other cultural clubs due to the vast religious and ethnic diversity of the country. This club will also take everyone so long as they are willing to help out in planning the association's events and are genuinely interested in Burmese culture. In general, the members of the club will be expected to attend most meetings and significantly help out in any events that are planned. All members will be vetted personally by the leaders to ensure that each member will be very convicted in the running of this association.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This Association will bring together the normally scattered Burmese students at Stuy, who are almost never found out as Burmese unless specifically asked. It will also spread a very underrepresented culture all throughout Stuy through events and fundraisers. It also provides students the opportunity to participate and volunteer in rather unknown cultural events. It also provides US-born Burmese students to experience genuine Burmese culture and embrace their cultural background and be around said people without fear of being "the odd one out". In addition, it provides a place for the immigrated Burmese kids of Stuy to come together and reflect on their shared cultural experiences. It also helps non-Burmese people to better understand Burmese culture and experience its delicious food. On the subject of food, the association is also a way for immigrated Burmese kids to enjoy the delicious food they once enjoyed in Burma thousands of miles away. This association could also bring together the Burmese parents of Stuyvesant, who are usually unknowing that there are other Burmese parents in the School. All in all, the club will establish a solid cultural identity for the Burmese students of Stuyvesant High School, bringing delicious food and fun cultural events along with it.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
This club is very democratic. Every semester, there will be a voting period in which 2 new leaders will be elected. A ranked voting system will be utilized to maximize effectiveness of democratic decisions. After each voting round, the lowest candidate will be removed from the voting pool and these rounds will go on until two candidates are left. These two candidates will be the leaders of the club for the following semester. In order to impeach a leader, 2/3 of the members will have to agree to impeach said leader. Only then will another voting period start to elect a new leader. On the other hand, if a member is to be removed from the association, half of the entire association will have to agree to remove them along with both of the leaders. Either that or 3/4 of the association will have to agree to remove the member in question, at which point the leaders' approval is null and void.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Stuy Burmese association is representative of a very underrepresented culture in Stuy. It is also unique in the fact that it donates its profits to an international civil war. This Association will not only benefit the cultural knowledge of the Stuy population as a whole; it also brings together the normally split-apart Burmese community of Stuyvesant High School. The club gives all Stuy students, be it Burmese or not, an opportunity to experience the unique culture of a normally-forgotten country in Southeast Asia.

