Mission Statement:
The Indian Culture Club aims to create a fun, educative atmosphere to explore all things India-- from entertainment, culture, and regions.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
When our club commences, we will share a google form with interested members. Based on the results, we will create our meeting schedule, which will likely be 3-4 meetings every month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The India Culture Club would seek to strengthen and unite the Indian community within Stuy.
Our goal is to bring representation to each and every state, language, and religion, within India. Firstly, the club will introduce weekly presentations to explore each state of India from Karnataka to Assam. In these presentations, individuals will discuss the state’s traditions, architecture, and people. Members from that particular state will have the opportunity to present and share their knowledge to their peers. Members can even bring in traditional food and art from their state to share with their peers. Moreover, the club will conduct workshops to delve into particular art forms. From exploring Carnatic music, Thanjavur paintings, and the Odissi dance, the club will highlight the rich diversity that makes India, India. In these workshops, leaders will incorporate engaging activities and conduct craft sessions.This will allow members to get their hands dirty as they make traditional crafts from Kalamkari and Kolam. Furthermore, leaders will also coordinate quiz bowl days where members can compete with one another and test the knowledge they learned. The winner will get a prize and bragging rights! In addition, at the end of the year, members can engage in an exchange day with other culture clubs. This will allow both clubs to present, discuss, and share their culture. The goal is to inform others and get informed, which will create a supportive community within Stuy. Finally, the club will host celebrations and movie days where members can enjoy Indian food, listen to Indian music, and watch cherished films. Ultimately, this will create a fun atmosphere for individuals to explore India, embrace its diversity, and bond with peers.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Learning is best achieved communally. Just as Stuyvesant provides the opportunity to learn academic subjects together, this club provides the experience of sharing and discovering Indian roots with one another. In this process, club members will be able to make valuable memories and friendships that are strengthened by cultural connections, thus fulfilling a valuable part of the Stuyvesant experience. Every week, members can look forward to sharing a piece of their culture, from narrating generation-old folktales to sharing the intricacies of shrines that they have seen. And to complete the whole puzzle, members will also be able to learn about every state in India and its local festivals from their peers, providing a new standard of Indian representation at Stuyvesant. Every nook and cranny of India, be it a big city or a small town, is an important part of a magnificent puzzle. With this being the fundamental belief, the Indian Culture Club is the first space at Stuy where all of India is celebrated for its ceaseless spirit. By exploring every part of India in its cultural and religious dimensions, members will have the opportunity to be informed on the entirety of the country. They will be able to cherish the vibrance of Indian culture and carry this knowledge to other Stuyvesant students, Indian or not.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
While this club does not demand a lot of time commitment, it asks for dedication, in terms of attending meetings consistently and contributing to presentations and activities. Members who have a particular responsibility in our meetings — such as presenting about their state to coordinating a workshop — must inform us if they are unable to attend. Our leadership policy is simple. Higher commitment begets higher positions, which include an Outreach manager, a curriculum organizer, and, of course, a party planner. We will also use a google form application to determine our leadership team for each year. The club will use a strike policy to determine if leaders need to be impeached. After the first and second strike, leaders will be warned regarding their lack of commitment. Additionally, higher-leadership will discuss this with them and attempt to resolve the issue. However, if leaders are unable to fulfill their responsibilities more than 3 times, then they will be impeached from the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
This is the only club at Stuy that thoroughly examines India, only India, and all of India. All club members contribute to what activities are covered over the course of the school year. The Indian Culture Club is the first at Stuy to mix Indian tradition and learning in a warm, accepting environment. The club’s goal is not just teaching members about India, but also to unite Stuy’s Indian student body through embracing India’s rich diversity.

