Mission Statement:
Deutscher Kulturklub is a welcoming community where students can explore the vibrant culture of Germany through food, films, music, and language.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, but we meet at least once a month, typically on Mondays or Fridays.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of the Deutscher Kulturklub is to provide a space for students to learn about German culture and practice their language skills. With a focus on the German language and lifestyle, the club aims to immerse students through cuisine, celebrations, and popular culture. The club will screen German films and teach an appreciation for Deutschpop music, sample culinary delights like Bratwurst, and celebrate holidays such as Nikolaustag. We will also visit sites around the city that are of cultural significance and develop a connection to New York City's German community. The club will compile and notify students of opportunities to go to Germany over the summer, such as language immersion programs. It will also serve as a way for upperclassmen to support younger students as they learn German for the first time. The club will allow students to apply their German skills in a nurturing setting, building off of their knowledge of linguistics and fostering a curiosity about German culture.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Deutscher Kulturklub will provide a welcoming space for students from all backgrounds to immerse themselves in German culture and practice their language skills. According to the Goethe-Institut, German is the second most commonly used scientific language, and at a STEM school like Stuyvesant, learning this language will increase opportunities for those seeking careers in science and engineering. It will provide opportunities outside of class for students to gain a hands-on understanding of German culture, sampling delicious dishes, enjoying the music of Bach and Beethoven, and exploring the environmentally-conscious German lifestyle. It will also notify students of opportunities to travel to Germany and available tutoring services. The club will also provide information for students who are interested in applying to college in a German-speaking country, and help them meet language expectations for this goal.We aim to bring German culture not just to the club, but to the entire Stuyvesant community. We will have film screenings and go Weihnachten caroling around the school building. Most of all, our goal is to create a German learning environment that is free from the restraints of a classroom setting and allows its members to focus on whatever aspect of German culture is most interesting to them.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The club is run by a president and vice president and a faculty advisor (Frau Lindemulder). Club members are encouraged to attend as many meetings as possible, but meetings will be held no more than twice a month. Members of the club will be able to suggest and vote on activities. Leaders will be chosen based on involvement and contributions to the club after filling out an application reviewed by the current presidents. Senior presidents will hold the position until they graduate, at which point their successors will take on the leadership roles. At any time, if a member feels that a president should be impeached for a valid reason, a vote will be held and proper action taken. A new president/vice president will be chosen via the typical process by the remaining president/vice president.The duties of the presidents include promoting the club around Stuyvesant and recruiting new members, organizing and planning meetings, communicating with members and faculty, and hosting meetings each month. They will participate in community-building exercises with the members, and make sure that everyone has a chance to have their voice heard. They will work to create a friendly, nurturing, fun learning community.

What makes this activity unique?:
This organization is unique because it creates an environment for German students and their peers to learn about German culture by exploring the aspects of it that interest them, such as food, music, film, and language. It will provide additional opportunities for students to apply their German skills outside of school, or to practice their German skills as they learn. We will foster a warm, welcoming community, and develop lasting friendships between members. We will make learning about Germany fun and interesting.

