Mission Statement:
The History Club provides members with an enriched understanding of history in a fun environment through weekly meetings and History Bowl competitions

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Wednesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The History club usually meets once a week, on either Mondays, Wednesdays, or Thursdays. In the weeks prior to History Bowl competitions, the club may meet twice a week for extra practice and to go over logistics. History Bowl competitions occur a few weekends per year.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The History Club is a community of students who are interested in history and want to further pursue it outside of the classroom. The club provides students with a deeper and more exciting look at history through participation in events such as History Bowl competitions, where members compete as a team against schools from around the country in history trivia. There are state competitions throughout the year that the history club competes in, and at the end of the year, there is a national competition. During the weekly meetings, members will have the chance to participate in a wide range of history-related activities, such as practicing for History Bowl competitions and working on projects for events such as National History Day. In addition to practicing for History Bowl, the club is a space where students can discuss current events or historical subjects of interest, or ask questions regarding topics and assignments in their social studies classes. No prior knowledge is required, just an interest to learn more. The club meets once a week and members are expected to regularly attend meetings as well as History Bowl competitions which occur around three times a year on weekends. Members are also encouraged to participate in individual competitions such as the History Bee or Geography Bee which the club will hold practices for if there is enough interest.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity benefits the Stuyvesant community because it is one of the only clubs aimed at furthering students' understanding of history. The History Club allows students who are interested in history to pursue this interest outside of the classroom in a community of like-minded individuals. Members who excel in history can have the opportunity to participate in various History Bowl competitions around the tri-state area. In the last fours years, members of the History Club were able to regularly reach the quarterfinals and semifinals of regional tournaments and even earned awards at the 2022 national competition in Washington DC. Moreover, the History Club is faculty advised by Dr. Greenwald who has taken a lot of time to develop the club's agenda so that it can best benefit students who are interested in learning more about history and further exploring their interest in the subject. Finally, students who require extra help in history or want to be better prepared for their history classes can come to meetings to seek help from upperclassmen who already did well in those courses. Attending club meetings can help students do better in their own history classes because a lot of the topics explored within the club overlap with the curriculum of various Stuyvesant history classes.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions within the club are President(s), Vice President(s), and a Recruitment Director. These positions will be chosen at the start of the year through collective agreement. In the future, there may be additional leadership positions added such as members in charge of events, tutoring, managing and requesting funds, and other positions that are deemed necessary. Leadership positions for each year are currently decided by collective agreement at the end of the previous year and approved by Dr. Greenwald who is the faculty advisor of the club. Some factors that impact the choosing of leaders are seniority within the club, previous leadership within the club and commitment. When transferring leadership between school years, the new leaders will be taught everything they need to know to facilitate a successful and smooth transition. Members within the club are expected to attend meetings regularly and actively participate in various opportunities offered by the club such as competing in History Bowl competitions. Though there is no application process to be president, members who want to hold a leadership position should show great interest in the club by coming to every meeting and participating in all the events. Presidents can be impeached by our faculty advisor, Dr. Greenwald. If there is an impeachment, Dr. Greenwald will choose a new member of the club to assume the role of president.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club is unique as there is no other club that is focused on learning and exploring history. History Club gives students the unique opportunity to pursue their interest in history with a community of individuals who are also passionate about learning history. Moreover, the History Club is the only club that gives members the opportunity to compete as a team in History Bowl and History Bee competitions and to join the National History Honors Society.

