Mission Statement:
As Stuy's chapter of the New York Road Runners, we promote a healthier lifestyle through recreational running and exercise in a welcoming environment.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Wednesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We meet Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays during 10th period and after school. Runners may attend whenever they are available.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Road Runners welcomes students who want to stay in shape in a low commitment club. Students can run recreationally or train for tryouts for PSAL sports teams. Stuyvesant Road Runners meets three days a week (Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays) but members do not have to show up all three days. Members meet at the first floor lobby where attendance is taken. Afterward, leaders will take members out to the Hudson River where members do various running activities such as endurance runs, sprints, and time trials. Members engage in calisthenic exercises post-run that target their core strength and upper body strength. The last segment of a typical meeting is the cooldown which consists of stretches including but not limited to: piriformis, toe touches, and cobra stretches. Road Runners are encouraged to put their best efforts into runs and workouts and to run on their own time during week-long vacations or when school is remote. In case the weather does not permit the club to run outside, leaders will conduct aerobic exercises in lieu of the usual outdoor runs. Outside of school, members have the opportunity to participate in races and other events hosted by the New York Road Runners organization. Members also have the opportunity to receive free items such as T-shirts or headbands through their engagement in Road Runners. Dedicated members receive medals that celebrate their efforts and achievements.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant Road Runners advocates for health and fitness because leaders believe that exercise, no matter how little it is, can be both mentally and physically beneficial. Exercise is especially important because students often forget to include physical activity into their schedules. In addition, off-season athletes can make use of Road Runners to prepare for the next season. Students who are not a part of PSAL teams or who wish to commit to a running routine can find many benefits in the Road Runners club; joining a circle of fellow runners generates encouragement and group effort. While running is not always an easy sport, Road Runners aims to provide continual motivation and support for starting-out or experienced runners. Running is an aerobic exercise that gives great cardiovascular benefits. Post-run workouts consist of a large variety of stretches and calisthenics. Doing such workouts regularly leads to greater strength and muscle fitness. In addition to building running endurance and strength, joining Road Runners is a great way to engage in a community. Members can run with others and motivate each other along the way. There is no shortage of motivation and support, two elements that make running a less daunting sport. Members are also encouraged to drink enough water and make that a lifestyle habit. Road Runners provides a great reminder to look after one’s physical and mental health, and is a period to let go of any academic or outside stress.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
At the beginning of spring semester, current leaders send out an email to the club to announce the release of leadership applications. Members who are interested fill out the attached Google Forms stating their reason for applying and other time commitments. This information, along with commitment and workout participation, will be used by the current leadership to select new leaders. Current leaders meet to review each application and select applicants who will be given an interview. Applicants who are chosen after interviews are leaders-in-training, and they will lead the post-run workouts. New leaders are officially chosen in June. All leaders of the club are expected to lead runs, exercises, and be present at every practice unless they have notified the other leaders in advance. Leaders organize the budget, meeting attendance, and send out emails with updates. In regards to impeachment protocols, members can talk to any of the leaders, who then convene to discuss the issue. If the issue is not resolved by then, leaders will meet with the faculty advisor to discuss further steps. Then the faculty advisor will hold a meeting with all the leaders where the leader who has been neglecting their duties is given a choice to either fulfill their duties or to resign from their leadership position. Members are encouraged to attend every meeting and for their safety, members are required to wear the proper attire (e.g. t-shirt, shorts, leggings, sneakers).

What makes this activity unique?:
Road Runners is one of the few non-competitive athletic activities at Stuyvesant because the club accepts runners at every level. As a chapter of the New York Road Runners organization, members have the chance to participate in city-wide half-marathons and events. Members can also receive T-shirts, sneakers, and other items from the organization as a commemoration for their dedication. Road Runners meets during tenth period and after school, allowing members to maximize their free period if they wish. Leaders help to foster an encouraging environment for everyone and help members set personal goals and work toward achieving them.

