Mission Statement:
The Stuy Tennis Club is designed to connect tennis players at this school with the aim to aid in the development of our games and the sport in general

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Although scheduling may differ, we plan to meet once a month or more and thrice in the Spring as required.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuy Tennis Club will have several purposes in its association, mainly, simply giving students with similar interests in tennis a place to play and interact with each other. Our establishment will serve as a beacon to anyone implicated and gifted in the sport, as well as keen to prepare for their personal upcoming tournaments and joining the Stuyvesant Tennis Team. To be clear, due to restrictions on physical activities in clubs, this club will mainly be focused on meeting with people off the court at our meetings. Through that personal interaction with people of similar skill/levels at meetings, an environment which fosters the development and progression of the tennis-playing abilities of the group members. Basically, the club is designed to bring like-minded people together, in terms of tennis, and have them meet/interact with each other in order to "lift" each other up, in terms of their tennis playing skills. This is not to say that perhaps at certain times we would be open to officially going out and actually playing tennis, with our faculty supervisor, at designated tennis courts.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The key concept of how this activity will truly benefit the Stuyvesant community is by providing an opportunity for students to improve their game, and perhaps to play amongst others from the school and in other formal settings. Tennis has been proven to increase aerobic capacities, as well as bone density and reaction times. Tennis has shown to improve metabolic function and muscle tone, as well as lower resting heart rate, blood pressure and body fat. Tennis is also a non-contact sport, meaning that there will be little concern for body damage from parents and education staff, and it is a great stress-reliever, which is something that the average stuyvesant student can use. Tennis has also been renowned for the creation of healthy relationships; tennis allows players to have fun together, build skills, and develop into strong and able athletes. Moreover, tennis improves communication and teamwork skills. Therefore, our club isn't just about the sport, it's also about camaraderie, companionship, and creating a place for students to interact with each other and build positive connections founded on similar interests, making you a better person for the real world in and ahead of school. Overall, tennis is great for asserting health, physical capabilities, strength and agility, as well as increasing social ingenuity and mental health.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The way that the leadership position at this club will be rotated is that once the acting leader graduates, or for any extenuating circumstances is forced to give up their position, the leader will choose the longest-serving member since becoming leader, or the member which displays the greatest amount of dedication and commitment to the club (which may or may not also be the longest-serving member). Members are expected to have good attendance to our meetings, expected to act with respect and dignity, and display a degree of dedication to the club and their clubmates. A member can be kicked out of the club if they fail to attend multiple meetings in a row without providing an adequate excuse and/or act with disregard for the respect of people at Stuy, and in our club. A leader can be impeached if a majority of the members in the club (a leader cannot be included in this vote) decide that the leader is acting in a fashion which communicates a lack of commitment and desire to the club. A vote is necessary to impeach the leader, and a leader cannot be included in the vote. If a majority of members vote to impeach the leader, the leader will be impeached, and can be kicked out of the club. Then, a vote will be held to appoint a new leader from the remaining members in the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
"What makes our club unique is primarily the fact that the school lacks a Tennis Club in the first place, which means that our club will provide the sole rendezvous, if you will, for those truly interested in playing and learning about tennis with other players in their age group and skill levels. While our club is open to accepting players of all skill levels.
(though we prefer more dominant players and will make our membership decisions based on that preference), the authenticity of our affiliation is that the meetings and practices
are purely optional and are flexible for those in our group."

