Mission Statement:
Stuy French club is for sharing French culture and experiencing it as accurately as possible.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Friday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Once every one to two weeks on a Friday or Monday in a classroom. Occasionally, we will be holding virtual meetings from 7 to 8 so that those with other commitments can still make it!

What is the purpose of this activity?:
French is the 5th most spoken language in the whole world. It is also one of the 6 languages that are available to students to study during their 4 years here at Stuyvesant. Language classes are a completely different type of class than our core ones like English, Math, History, or Science because you are learning something new naturally instead of memorizing or analyzing what you learn from reading textbooks. Our club wants to create an environment where students who are interested in learning about French culture or building upon their current knowledge of the French language are able to come together and do so as a French community! Club members are especially encouraged to help out the club, either in funding or advertisement. Though not required, it will help out the club tremendously and will lead to even more amusing and elaborate activities. This club is low commitment, so members just need to show interest and most importantly have a great time!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy students with interest can connect and enjoy the club with each other. It's a fantastic way to relax, enjoy some good food, and learn something new. Anyone can play an important role in the club, sharing their own thoughts and experience, and helping out. There is no pressure in meeting any standards and it is a great way to engage with the community. Students are prompted to share the clubs with others which could lead to more attendance which will obviously in turn make the club experience “mieux”. This club will help students express their interest in culture outside of the Americas. This opportunity will be especially beneficial for those studying French in their classes because they will be able to learn about the background of French lifestyle, history, and people instead of just learning about the language itself. It will also provide a relaxing environment, which we all need as Stuy students after a day’s worth of hard work during school. Occasionally, however, we will also plan on holding fun Kahoots to increase the feeling of friendly competition for those students who want things to spice up a bit. We’ll be opening the doors for students to dive into and explore French culture!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
"Appointing Leaders:
Each year, 2 Co-Presidents shall be chosen based on the following criteria: 1 of the Co-Presidents must have completed the AP French course to have most familiarity with the language and be able to communicate with others in French and help them practice speaking. The second Co-President shall be one who has been deemed by the current Co-Presidents to be the most committed and expressing member during club meetings. Based on this, the current Co-Presidents shall pass on their torch, carrying their French legacy, to their successors. The Co-Presidents shall elect a Vice President of their choice at the start of the following school year. The two new Co-Presidents will have to perform a meeting under the supervision of the current Co-Presidents, who will give suggestions and feedback. Afterwards, they are ready to lead the club.
Impeaching Leaders:
Our impeachment process will be simple. If a leader is found to be disrespectful to the members in any way, or excessively not showing up to meetings, then, the other two leaders (Co-Presidents or Co-President + Vice President) have the right to impeach that leader. If the impeached leader was a Co-President, then, the Vice-President shall become the Co-President replacement. The Co-Presidents shall always select a new Vice President together when that spot is shown to be empty.
"

What makes this activity unique?:
In the French Club, members can vote on what they would like to do next. This is to ensure that we do what our members want so they receive the best for their time. It is meant to be a way to relax, learn new and useful things, and connect with others who share similar interests. The broadness of the club can spread off into a multitude of different topics with completely different backgrounds as well. We can dive deep into real world subjects such as energy consumption, demonstrations, diversity, and much more.

