Mission Statement:
Our mission is to provide the opportunity for academic support to schools in underserved communities and promote better learning environments.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The Stuyvesant Study Society meeting schedule varies as we mainly communicate through email and each individual tutor makes their own meeting plans with their tutees. Normally tutors volunteer for one to two tutoring sessions a week. Tutoring sessions are held online through Zoom. If needed for logistical purposes, we may hold a couple in-person meetings over the course of the year.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The primary purpose of the Stuyvesant Study Society is to provide quality tutoring to a diverse demographic of underserved students residing in New York City’s five main boroughs. We want to get our tutors in connection with nonprofits and schools across the city so that they can make a difference for students in elementary, middle, and high school. We want our tutors to help close the glaring education gap that exists city-wide. Although we recognize that this problem is bigger than we are, we feel that as Stuyvesant students who have been exposed to limitless opportunities and exceptional education, we want to pay it forward by sharing the opportunities that we have to those who might not otherwise have access to them. Much of our role in the process would be as a facilitator: we connect our tutors with the tutoring organizations and schools we work with, making sure that they know where and when their sessions are, matching their schedules with available tutoring slots, and ensuring that the sessions themselves continue smoothly. By connecting as many students as possible with tutoring opportunities, we will be providing organizations with intelligent, hard-working tutors eager to make a difference.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant Study Society allows Stuyvesant’s scholars to interact with the community, make an impact in the city, and meet others just like them in the process. We enable tutors to reach out to communities that they have never been exposed to. They will be brought out of their Stuyvesant bubble and meet students who may not have the same backgrounds as them, nor have grown up in the same environment. They will be exposed to a variety of cultures through tutees and the neighborhoods that they travel to. In addition to experiencing a bright new environment, our tutors will also be part of an extremely rewarding experience: that being helping underserved students reach their goals. On the more practical side of things, tutors will develop their teaching skills, communication skills, and learn how to manage a weekly schedule with their tutees, as well receive community service hours. And through their organization, they will be provided with an opportunity to get a letter of certification at the end to prove their hard work. Not only will these benefits impact Stuy kids as individuals, but also will build relationships between Stuyvesant and the organizations that we work with, further expanding our network and allowing more scholars to join and reap the benefits of being a Stuyvesant Study Society tutor.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Appointments to the board will be made through written applications and interviews. The board will consist of members conditional upon the needs of the club in a specific year. This will be determined by the assigned executive board.

The Executive Board may vote on the removal of co-presidents, or any Executive Board Member, of the Stuyvesant Study Society. Removal results in a loss of title and membership from the Stuyvesant Study Society. The Executive Board may vote to allow the impeached person membership of Stuyvesant Study Society, but can not hold a position on the Executive Board thereafter.
If a motion for Impeachment is to be called against a Board Member, they must clearly be failing to uphold the values of the Stuyvesant Study Society.
This would include (but is not limited to) failure to show up to meetings, an obvious lack of dedication to their duties as a Board Member, or a consistent inability to complete tasks that are necessary to the overall function of Stuyvesant Study Society.
If a Board Member believes that an Impeachment is necessary, they must motion to hold an Impeachment Hearing.
This motion must be seconded by at least two other Board Members, and if this occurs the Board will move forward to the Impeachment Hearing proceedings, detailed below.
Impeachment Hearing
An impeachment hearing is a formal discussion preceding the removal of a Stuyvesant Study Society executive
that all Board members must attend.
At the Impeachment Hearing, any member of the Executive Board may present reasons for the removal. Following this discussion, the Board Member being questioned will be allowed time to defend him/herself.
At that point, any member of the Committee may make a motion to remove the Board Member from office or close the hearing.
If no motion is made, then discussion will continue until such a motion is made.
If a motion is made to close the hearing, it must be seconded in order to vote to close. If it is seconded, then a simple majority vote will close the hearing, and the Board Member will keep their position.
If a motion for removal is made and seconded, a 2/3 majority must vote in favor in order to remove the Stuyvesant Study Society Board Member.

What makes this activity unique?:
SSS is unique in that we specifically partner with elementary schools and after school programs that have a significant portion of economically disadvantaged or homeless students. Many Stuyvesant students come from low-income households, and we acknowledge our privilege to have access to an exceptional education. We believe we have an obligation to give back to the broader NYC community and are committed to bridging the education gap that exists city-wide. Our tutors have the rare opportunity to mentor and equip elementary school students with the tools and skills to succeed in higher education and beyond through personalized one-on-one sessions.

