Mission Statement:
This club aims to unite all pianists in Stuyvesant together to inspire and teach one another.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We plan to hold monthly salons (small performances) as well as outreach concerts whenever we can. Other meetings may be held irregularly depending on everyone's availability when in need of discussing the future of the club.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Klavier Klubhouse in Stuyvesant will have multiple different goals as the club grows. As of currently, the purpose of the club is to bring together like-minded pianists and provide a media for everyone to meet their peers who can inspire and advise each other. We also hope to host small, monthly salons where pianists get to show-case their skills and repertoires; in addition, we may also partner up with other clubs to host bigger concerts in and out of Stuyvesant. This club also welcomes all those who are interested in learning this instrument, as we will do our best to provide those members with our pianists who are willing to teach. As the club expands, we hope to create subdivisions within the club for those who are interested in other music related activities, such as composition and music theory.

In the future, we hope to connect with other schools in New York and have our pianists perform for various other schools such as LaGuardia and Bronx Science, thus creating an inter-schools community of pianists. We will work our best to try to bring our pianists (as well as any other instrumentalists interested) more performance chances around the city.

Members are expected to be supportive to their peers by ways of attending monthly salons and giving feedback to one another. We encourage all intermediate and advanced pianists to actively participate in concerts whenever ready as well as to teach students who wish to learn piano.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
In Stuyvesant, nearly all instrumentalists can partake in an ensemble class, such as band or orchestra, where they feel like they belong to. Pianists, however, are not needed in any classes other than chorus; yet, with so few available spots for pianists in chorus and so many of us in Stuyvesant in general, almost the majority of us don't belong in any music ensemble classes. As a result of Stuyvesant not having a strongly bonded community of pianists, it can be hard for many of us to find similar people with a common interest in piano-playing with whom we can discuss about piano. This is one of the issues this club can address: by providing pianists with an official community that everyone can be part of regardless of their skills, one might find new inspirations to continue the journey in piano learning and playing.

Another problem this club can address is that to many of us, especially self-learners, we lack opportunities to present our skills and new-learned repertoires in front of others. Many people practice solely to play in front of their teachers, which can be a very frustrating experience that feels fruitless and time wasting. This club will provide students with multiple opportunities to display their achievements in piano-playing in front of their peers and others.

We also hope to see that one day, the name of The Klavier Klubhouse shall be heard in other schools as well, and that we will collaborate with piano clubs/communities of other schools to perform for each other. This will thus increase the bond between the schools and hopefully offer our members a chance to meet others from another school.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
As of currently, there will be 3 co-presidents each representing their grade from sophomore to senior. Before the graduation of the senior president, a new leader will be chosen to take over this position in the following school year by consensus of all co-presidents from a pool of nominees (can be self-nominated or nominated by others). It is expected that the newly chosen president possesses essential leadership traits, such as charisma, good cooperation, ambitious visions, and organization skills, as well as high skill and mastery in piano playing.

Presidents assume no power other than the appointing of administrative jobs/roles, scheduling of meetings, and the making of important decisions. Nevertheless, everyone, including the presidents, will be able to apply for one of the many admin jobs/roles concerning various aspects of the club including but not limited to outreach and advertising. 

A member may file complaints for any leaders or admins directly to one of the presidents concerning their actions. Presidents can be impeached if the other two find the reasons valid and if the said president refuses to change. The position of a president is then available for those within the same grade first, and afterwards, other grades if no suitable candidate can be found.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club is unique as it is the only club in Stuyvesant that is dedicated to piano. Even though we welcome non-pianists to join for the fun of it, The Klavier Klubhouse will put its main focus on piano-related activities. Later on, we may try to expand our club to attract a variety of other musicians, such as by setting up the composition division, the organ division, etc. This club will impact Stuyvesant's music community by joining the previously loose and unconnected piano community.

