Mission Statement:
Stuy Proteomics strives to foster a love for biology beyond the scope of the classroom, with a focus on 3-D protein models and biology research.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings will be held once a week, though they may be held more often in the weeks approaching the symposium or other major events. The club takes a vote at the beginning of each semester to decide which day of the week works best for everyone.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Proteomics welcomes anyone interested in: going beyond traditional memorization to delve deeper into biology, chemistry, and molecular modeling; developing research, public speaking, and collaboration skills; learning more about 3-D printing or design in a scientific environment; or all of the above! Members of this club investigate how and why proteins fold into their specific structures. Each year, club members go through a research and voting process to decide which protein(s) they want to focus on; then, members collaborate to research important aspects of the protein of choice, including reading current scientific literature, designing 3-D models to visualize the protein's structure, and printing these models in the Innovation Lab. At the end of the research and design process, members work together and create a presentation to convey the story of the protein and its model, attending a citywide symposium to share knowledge with other schools. Additionally, throughout the school year, members also receive opportunities to explore beyond the annual symposium project, such as through participating in competitions like the Future Protein Engineers Contest or collaborating with the biology department to demonstrate interactions of proteins related to the biology curriculum.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Members of Stuy Proteomics will have the opportunity to apply their knowledge from biology to a real research project. Members will also be able to explore biology as a career option. Unlike other biology research clubs, the team aspect of this project fosters collaboration, not just among members, but also between schools. Members will learn to have an open mind about the process of research and design and will learn about other schools' projects and molecules of interest. We stray away from the traditional memorization that many students dislike about biology. Instead, we use hands-on approaches and collaboration to investigate real-life applications of biological research. Participating in Stuy Proteomics will give members a more in-depth understanding of what the work of scientists consists of on a day-to-day basis and how they collaborate and share results. In addition, we have permission to utilize the Innovation Lab's 3-D printers to print models of proteins that can be used in future biology classrooms at Stuy. How many times have you wished there was a model for you to understand a concept in biology better? With the models created in our club, we can expand our individual passions for biology, as well as contribute to future biology classes.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Despite there being leadership positions in Stuy Proteomics, all members are encouraged to participate equally in the project. Before every meeting, members are expected to complete the work assigned during the previous meeting and follow all deadlines assigned. As we approach the symposium, members are expected to attend more meetings and dedicate more time to the project. Leadership positions are available to anyone who shows genuine, consistent dedication to helping the club. Members can indicate interest in a leadership position by approaching the current leaders and/or the faculty advisor; current leaders consult with the faculty advisor for appointments. Leadership positions transfer between school years; however, if someone with a leadership position fails to contribute actively to the club, their position may be given to another member. If any of the members have issues with another member, the leaders will work together with the faculty advisor to come up with a suitable resolution.

What makes this activity unique?:
Unlike other STEM clubs, Stuy Proteomics is adaptive to each member’s interests and provides the opportunity to explore current research beyond a textbook. Though we always review the basics of protein modeling and reading scientific literature, there is no set curriculum, and the course that the club takes is unique each year. For example, during the 2021-22 virtual school year, the club originally sought to explore proteins related to SARS-CoV-2, and as the school year went on and the pandemic continued to develop, our project turned toward antibodies and variants. Additionally, the annual citywide symposium we participate in allows members to improve their public speaking and scientific communication skills; it provides a genuine outlet to share our work with like-minded students and collaborate with other schools.

