Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Climbing Club will provide students with the opportunity to nurture climbing skills and have fun in a safe and supportive environment.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will vary throughout the year, we will probably post optional meetings around every 1-2 weeks. Feel free to come whenever you want.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Climbing Club will provide students interested in climbing with opportunities to learn and strengthen climbing skills and technique, safety procedures, and developing a passion for climbing. Students of any experience and skill are welcome, and will be guided by more experienced climbers to improve their climbing skills. Through regular indoor bouldering sessions, the main discipline of climbing that we are focusing on, we will introduce members to all that climbing has to offer, with an emphasis on improving their climbing techniques and problem-solving abilities. Safety and fun will be emphasized in everything we do, ensuring that all members can enjoy climbing in a supportive environment. As the club evolves, we also plan to organize outdoor meetups, giving members the chance to experience climbing on real rock. Overall, participants of all experience and comfort levels will benefit from joining this club, being exposed to new experiences and will have the opportunity to teach and learn from fellow members who share the same passion for climbing. All members are expected to attend most meetups and positively contribute to the club, be it helping others or just making the meetings fun for everyone. Ultimately, our goal is to inspire students at Stuyvesant to try climbing and challenge themselves, while fostering a climbing community at Stuy.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant Climbing Club will benefit the Stuyvesant community by creating a place for students passionate about climbing and students new to climbing alike to meet and learn from each other. Students joining the club will not only develop vital climbing skills and safety knowledge, but also cultivate qualities like determination, teamwork, and problem-solving. One of our main goals is to introduce students with no prior climbing experience to the sport, teaching them in a safe and supportive environment. Climbing is an amazing way to relieve stress, while spending time with others. Additionally, climbing is an amazing workout that engages your entire body, helping you build both endurance and strength while also giving your mind a workout figuring out how to navigate routes effectively. Especially in bouldering problems, where there are very unique techniques or "beta", and the mental barrier of committing to scary moves, climbing is a mental sport as much as physical. As members encourage and support each other during the meetings, we will create a community for climbing at Stuyvesant. By promoting an active lifestyle and providing a platform for students to challenge themselves, bond, and explore climbing, the Stuyvesant Climbing Club will contribute to a more vibrant and well-rounded school community.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership will consist of the founding members for the first year. The founders will serve as co-presidents and do all the work for the climbing club. Leadership for the next year may be chosen at the end of each school year if needed.
Appointment Procedures for the Stuyvesant Climbing Club:
At any point with vacant positions, the current club leaders will announce any vacancies for positions in leading the club. Interested members are talked to and evaluated, detailing their motivation, relevant experience, and ideas for enhancing the club's activities. Club members can then vote if they want to appoint a new leader and the remaining leaders can either appoint them or not. New positions may open as more people join the club.
Impeachment Procedures for the Stuyvesant Climbing Club:
In the very rare event that the performance or conduct of a club leader falls below the standards, club members can talk to the other leaders if they want to impeach someone. If everyone votes to impeach the leader, then the position is opened for someone else. This process ensures accountability and maintains the integrity of the club's leadership, ultimately contributing to the smooth functioning and positive atmosphere of the Stuyvesant Climbing Club.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant currently lacks a dedicated climbing club, making the establishment of this club a unique opportunity for students to venture into new territory within a supportive and secure setting that encourages learning. Moreover, the club's plan to organize outdoor meetups provides a good opportunity for members to experience the thrill of climbing on real rock. The Stuyvesant Climbing Club offers students a chance to improve their climbing skills with others and practice their skills in a group.

