Mission Statement:
STUA aims to study, discuss, and educate others about public transit and urban planning.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Tuesday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The club will function on a per-week basis in regard to meetings. Meeting dates will be posted to the club's social media and to StuyActivities, along with other events (e.g. fundraisers, trips, etc.). Meeting dates will be determined in advance by the Co-Presidents when necessary, but meetings will generally take place from 3:45 - 5:00.
Meetings at the school, when they are held, will be geared towards urbanism, and students will get the opportunity to discuss the future of cities with other students passionate about the subject. Meetings as a whole will be geared towards transit. 
We wish to use club feedback to improve meeting attendance by reworking meeting dates and adding urbanism-based concepts as meeting topics. We will submit an idea for a club meeting on the club's media platforms and poll members on their availability. When this is assessed, the meeting will be scheduled on the said day.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
This club informs the school community about the safe and efficient use of public transit on many levels. We plan on developing and releasing services that communicate the status of transit around Stuyvesant and the transit routes that most Stuyvesant students utilize daily. This club will also engage in trips and excursions on or relating to transit in order to promote the appreciation and further understanding of transit. This club also serves to educate students on the principles of urbanism and urban planning and apply them to solve problems that exist in reality. In addition, we aim to promote the use and expansion of public transit as well as the improvement of urban design to center around transit, walkability, equity, and health. 
This school year, the STUA aims to have a more formal presence in the school community. Therefore we would like to move towards better organization, whether that may be by using the StuyActivities calendar more frequently or reactivating the STUA Facebook Group for important announcements.
Members are expected to read our social media, such as, but not limited to the official club Facebook page, and Discord server, for announcements regarding club meetings, activities, and upcoming events. Participation in these activities is not mandatory but encouraged, and the level of commitment is dependent on each member’s own ability and desire. Our main form of inter-club communication will be through our Discord server, where members can interact with each other and propose new ideas and/or activities. Additionally, some club activities, such as our Guess the Station game, will be held online, so we encourage members to stay posted regularly.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The STUA seeks to engage in projects to improve the school community, including but not limited to plans to introduce a bike rack at Stuy and use the second-floor TV to display transit information. Both projects will improve the transit experience at Stuyvesant and hopefully encourage more students to not only optimize their commutes but choose more enjoyable forms of travel (biking, ferries), which in turn may improve their mental health, as hinted in scientific studies linking mental health to exposure to the natural environment. 
The STUA additionally seeks to partner with similar clubs (such as Stuyvesant Environmental Club) to hold meetings on the environmental effectiveness of transit, how it can connect and influence different cultures, and how it can be safer to protect the Stuy community. 
This activity benefits both the general school community and students with specific interests in public transportation and urbanism. This activity benefits Stuyvesant because it is a place for students interested in urbanism in general or transit specifically, to meet other students interested in the same topics. Additionally club trips and events outside the school such as would give students the opportunity to explore places they may have never visited before, and to explore transit infrastructure firsthand and in person. Oftentimes the exploration of a piece of infrastructure in person is more educational and instructive than simply discussing the place. It also helps the general Stuyvesant community by providing resources that increase safety awareness on transit, provides useful information about the system and how to navigate it, and general service status.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Members applying for leadership positions must submit a series of short responses to questions on an online questionnaire created by the current leadership of the club. The current leadership will then review the submitted responses and attempt to make a decision as to whether or not the applicant is fit to assume the position for which they are applying. The current presidents have full discretion over the designation of future leadership positions, one of which must be the president. It is possible for co-positions to exist at the current board’s discretion. 
If it is determined that additional members are required for the board to function efficiently during the next school year, the current board must present a Trial Leadership opportunity to the club. Trial Leader applicants must complete an application assessing their vision and ideas for the club’s future. The current board will use this information, along with the observed applicant’s interest in meetings and other club affairs to select an applicant for Trial Leadership. The number of trial leaders will be the number of positions the board requires for the next school year.
Trial leaders have the same responsibilities as the current board members in the department, and are expected to contribute to club operation as if they were a board member. If a trial leader is satisfactory, they will gain membership of their respective board department in the following school year. If this is not the case, the board reserves the ability to select another applicant for the board position in the following year. 
In general impeachment circumstances, when it is an appointed board member that is exhibiting unsatisfactory performance, all other members of the board, including the trial members, must hold a formal vote on the impeachment of this member. If all other Board members agree, the member in question will be removed from the board. If the board determines that there is a shortage of positions in the leadership following the removal of said member, the board can alternatively choose to elevate a trial leader to the vacated position in a following vote.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club is unique because it is the only club at Stuyvesant centered around public transportation and urbanism and because it has many components that do not exist in any other club, including Guess the Station games (in which players have to guess which station a photo was taken at), transit excursions (in which club members get to experience new subway lines and transit systems), urbanism meetings (in which we discuss future plans for a variety of cities, including New York), and presentations on the history of public transportation.
STUA is interested in collaborating with other clubs within and outside Stuyvesant to promote equity. Additionally, we also plan on working with community leaders outside of Stuyvesant for input on urban planning and transportation proposals created within the club.

