Mission Statement:
"The goal of stuy kazoo is to kazoo. - table 2022"

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We are spontaneous. 

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday... (a week)" from the hit song Seven by Jungkook

What is the purpose of this activity?:
We aim to create a relaxing and de-stressing environment for our club members through serenading them with our luscious kazoo music. We invest in the musical talents of our club members who work to entertain the masses as well as encouraging members to create new friends as they master their kazoo skills as there are basically no constrictions to how the kazoo can be played. Our activities inspire creativity and quick thinking as on-the-spot performances are very common, so we will progressively raise our members' self-esteem and confidence to interact with everything and everyone around them. Additionally, Our members can openly practice singing and gain more control over their voice. Creativity is the foundation of our club and we wish to share that with others. Singing, kazooing and harmonizing in unison with the melody our friends are playing also promotes critical thinking and teamwork. In summary, we slay the day, everyday.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
We create an outlet for both those who are just starting to explore the musical world or already have experience with music and sound. We always aim to have fun, so there is no need to be worried about making mistakes or having trouble with something inside or outside the club. Our club encourages stepping out of your comfort zone for the sake of playing the one and only KAZOO in public to bless the people's ears, but it is never required. We constantly get new interests that we will be incorporating into the kazoo club, so it is the prime club if you're looking for inspiration. Every experience is 100% unique and never seen before, so you are guaranteed to feel special and the first to do something cool. we will learn so many new melodies together because our activities will almost entirely be based on song recommendations (We mainly kazoo serious and emotional songs like Megalovania and Giorno's theme).There's absolutely no pressure to do well; we all sound like drowning cats 20 minutes in, everyone is nice and welcoming that friendships are quickly made so no one feels left out. Please consider joining, we are funny hee hee :)

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Stuy kazoo is mainly community-based and our leaders are appointed based on trust and creativity; they are people who can always make a member laugh and encourage them to pursue their passion in kazooing. Participating and showing up to meetings is a good start to getting a high position in the kazoo club. Our leaders were chosen because of their willingness to create a space to relax and have simple fun. Cindy (Founder and current club president) is overqualified for the position as she was the first to be able to blow bubbles with a kazoo and did it within seconds of having both objects in hand. Should someone want a leadership role, they will be decided upon by the council of the current kazoo leaders through voting (majority wins). Any leader should be able to organize events and actively communicate with the rest of the council, and it would be preferable if they had a good chunk of knowledge about the kazoo, as they should be able to teach members how to use them. Additionally, as an addendum, if you can bark with the kazoo you get extra proverbial points.

What makes this activity unique?:
We often have team outings and events together to form a real community with tight bonds. During these outings we combine kazoo's with everyday objects and experiences to discover the true potential of the kazooooooooooooo, along with what antics our members come up with. One of our events is a kazoo-off we hold every marking period where we sing songs we want in compilation with what we've learned during club sessions. The kazoo-off decides the kazoo-er-of-the-month, the winner, who will be rewarded with validation and praise and access to premium privileges during club hours.

