Mission Statement:
Stuy Cheer wants to help raise school spirit and help develop a school environment that is supportive and excited about its other team sports.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Stuy Cheer meets 3x/5x a week depending on if there's a game during football season. Stuy Cheer also meets 3x a week during the summer.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Cheerleading serves to provide the school with a source of spirit and support for our sports teams. We work to build our school's spirit by cheering at football games and performing at pep rallies. In addition to cheering and crowd-leading, our team also performs stunts. We practice everything from basket tosses to spinning and flipping skills, keeping the audience awestruck and engaged. After football season we hope to continue cheering for basketball or other sports who need the enthusiasm. During pep rallies we showcase everything from our cheering and dancing abilities to our partner stunt and team pyramid skills. Every summer we perfect these skills at our annual four-day cheerleading camp where we won best overall team spirit four years running. We proudly brought home the top banana displayed in our very own gymnastics gym. Our team works hard together and pushes for each other. We are a tight knit family and we wouldn't have it any other way. 
	We practice throughout the summer and fall, with tryouts at the end of every school year. No experience is necessary and we are always looking for more members to turn into Stuy Cheerleaders!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
One thing we notice about Stuyvesant is the fact that there are multiple mascots- from the Peglegs to the Felines, and the Pirates to the Penguins. Because the school is not united under one mascot, there is often confusion about who to support and this can create a lack of school unity. We, as cheerleaders, want to change that and make every single person in the school feel part of a family, even if they are from different teams and clubs. By providing an environment which promotes school spirit, Stuyvesant Cheer brings the various communities together under the umbrella of “Pegleg Pride”. To help the 3,400 students bond with each other, we participate in spirit days, cheer on our sports teams, and bring pride to Stuyvesant by competing. In addition to promoting school unity, we branch outside of school to provide help to other organizations, such as the Parent Association or St. Jude’s Hospital. While this is outside of the usual description for a cheerleader, we want to inspire other students to do more for their school. As a result, we can create a lasting impression on different people, building a solid network between businesses and other organizations as well as strengthen our school’s reputation.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Prospective cheerleading captains apply for the position by filling out a Google Form that includes questions on why they would like to obtain a leadership position, such as why they want to be captain, what would make them a good captain, and what their goals are for the season. The responses to the form are then released to members of the club, who have two votes each, and are able to pick their top two candidates that they want for senior captain in the upcoming season. After the previous season’s captains count the votes, they use the results to ultimately decide who will fill next year’s senior leadership positions. When the senior captains are chosen and announced, they collaborate to choose a junior captain, based on the Google Form and their history on the team. A captain may be impeached or team member put on probation if they receive three strikes based on the team’s strike system. Any behavior by a captain or team member that contributes to an unhealthy team environment will result in a strike. Members on probation may not attend practices or join the team during pep rallies or on game days. Other protocols team members are expected to follow include keeping a positive attitude at all times, filling out attendance forms for practice 24 hours in advance, and putting in their full effort into every practice. Clear lack of motivation during multiple practices also results in probation for members, and impeachment for captains.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant High School Cheerleading is a team dedicated to helping promote overall school spirit in many ways, some of which include encouraging our peers to come to our football team’s home games or by cheering on the football team from the sidelines. However, once football season comes to an end, we can choose whether or not we would like to continue our season by continuing to practice for Stunt in the spring and cheering for other teams. We may also begin to prepare for our next routine to compete in Cheer camp. The entire process of preparing a competition routine can be very arduous, and is certainly not for everyone, as it consists of many components: a stunt sequence, cheer, dance, jumps, and a pyramid. Cheerleading requires not only a great deal of athleticism and skill, but also motivation, spirit, and a smile on your face! Members who display a clear lack of interest or effort can be removed from the competition routine to respect those who do work hard and push through the challenges that are thrown at them. Overall, the difficulties our team faces are unlike those that any other athletic teams at our school may experience. While every other sports team is rooting for themselves, we have spirit for Stuyvesant and all of our classmates, regardless of grade, as a whole.

