Mission Statement:
StuyOrienteers is Stuy's orienteering team. We aim to educate people in and provide opportunities to compete in the sport of orienteering.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule depends largely on when events are happening and will vary throughout the year, but generally, there will be more meetings during the fall and especially spring, and less during the winter. Meetings will generally be once or twice a week, with optional weekend practices and events as much as possible.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Orienteering is a unique sport in which people use a map and compass to visit checkpoints on a course in the shortest time possible. Members will learn about the sport of orienteering while developing quick-thinking and decision making skills, as well as learning how to locate oneself in the wilderness using a map and compass. Members will learn how to apply this to orienteering in order to compete at local orienteering events! As with most sports, one gets out of it as much as one puts in to it, so it's up to individual members to decide how much they want to commit to this, though members are expected to come to some lectures and go to practices/events whenever they can. It is also really important for members to attend local events so that they can practice in real circumstances and get competitive scores! Orienteering is a very accessible sport that is fun for participants of all skill levels. New York City boasts many wonderful parks in which to practice and improve.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Orienteering is a multifaceted sport which benefits the Stuy community in many ways. Learning and practicing orienteering will allow students to train and develop various useful skills, including critical and quick thinking under time constraints. In addition, members will learn valuable survival skills which can be applicable in real life situations, such as figuring out where one is using a map, compass, and surrounding landmarks, taking a bearing (using a map and special compass to find your target direction), and knowing what to do if one gets lost. Team members are also going to learn how to prevent overheating and dehydration when going outside, which is important not only for orienteering but for any time one goes outside in the heat. Orienteering combines important elements from track, cross-country, map-reading, and even elements of games like chess and other timed decision-making games. Members will also be able to learn how to apply all these skills and knowledge to competitive orienteering events. Overall, orienteering is an amazing sport that develops one's physical and mental health in many ways, and helps learn skills that forever remain useful, while experiencing the unique and fun features of the sport! It teaches survival in a fun and interactive way.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The administration of StuyOrienteers will be headed by a Captain and an Assistant Captain. Other positions, such as secretary, shall be created as needed by majority vote of the existing administration. Once a year, usually in mid to late Spring, members wishing to apply to become members of next year’s administration must fill out a Google Form provided by the administration. The existing administration will then choose who will be members of the next year’s administration based on Google Form responses and club participation. One must have at least a year of orienteering experience to be eligible for Captain or Assistant Captain, but anyone can be eligible for other positions. If not enough people apply via Google Form, the administration can offer certain positions to people that they consider good candidates for the position. Existing administration can offer newly created positions during the school year to members rather than through a Google Form. Any member can propose an impeachment of any administrative position during any in-school meeting. Impeachment must occur only by ⅔ supermajority of a vote involving at least ⅔ members. In order to remain on the team members must also attend at least one practice every 2 months. Members of the administration must have good reasons to miss practices. If a member of the club is being overly disruptive to club activities or continually and purposefully attempts to harm the club, the administration team can, after warning the member at least 3 times, via a majority vote, expel/ban the individual from being a member of the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyOrienteers is the only orienteering team at Stuy, and the only one to provide experience and practice in the unique and useful skills associated with orienteering. Orienteering is a sport recognized by the Olympic committee that has both physical and mental components, and develops all aspects of one's wellbeing. There are no sports like orienteering, and this team is the only map sport team at Stuy. Orienteering offers a unique opportunity to spend time with friends while learning new skills and spending time outside, as well as visiting new parks all over the city.

