Mission Statement:
Our mission is to help the Stuy community learn the principles of economics and personal finance in order to build a foundation for future endeavors.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will hold biweekly meetings on Thursdays throughout the year.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Financial literacy is an essential part of everyone's life, regardless of whether or not they are interested in business or finance. Stuynomics hopes to provide a nurturing environment for Stuyvesant students to become financially literate. Today, a good-paying job and salary are not enough to guarantee financial security, which is the priority for many. We know that everyone, from those just trying to help out their families financially to those who want to pursue the economics/finance field, will greatly benefit from learning about passive income, the stock market, investment returns, retirement planning, and more. Stuynomics will guide students in navigating the complexities of economics by providing a structured path of learning during our weekly meetings. While the leaders of Stuynomics bring to the table their prior knowledge, they also join their colleagues on the journey to financial literacy. Stuynomics will instill within members the fundamentals of economics (terminology, techniques, trends, etc), before moving onto more advanced material. Members will also get the chance to apply their learning hands-on through a variety of activities such as games, stock market simulations, and competitions. In addition, another main goal of the organization is to bring greater clarity to the ideas of stocks and economic trends, which may be an intimidating and alien concept to many. Through the use of a variety of games as well as student led lessons, we aim to fix this issue. With this, our ultimate goal is for our members of varying experience levels to be able to pave a financially secure future for themselves and their families.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
We want to help our members become more responsible adults who understand how to manage their income and make smart financial decisions. They will engage in meetings centered around teaching essential life skills, familiarizing themselves with investing, and the economy in the past and present. The information that will be taught may be useful in certain classes, such as AP Micro/Macroeconomics and Statistics. We also want our members to learn basic networking and leadership skills by engaging in our online competitions and events. We hope that our members will share their knowledge of economics with friends and family, thereby improving financial literacy outside of Stuy. We will be incorporating information from an organization called “StreetFins,” which is dedicated to promoting financial literacy to students in high school. We will assemble PowerPoint to present to students, and all the information will be from reliable sources. We will teach our members the key aspects of passive and active income, as well as important future endeavors such as home ownership, opening a bank account, and filing taxes. We have and will continue to connect students with professionals such as investment bankers, financial analysts, and other professionals in such fields to share their advice with our diverse group of members. We believe that everyone at Stuy should be able to take the initiative to engage in the economy and explore future opportunities, regardless of their background and skill level. We wish to help all our members achieve financial stability and we will do so by offering workshops involving resume building, job searching, and investing. We will make sure that our members, whatever their background may be, will be able to realize what financial security means to them.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
For a club member to be considered for a position, they must have been an active member within the club for at least one year. Club members who wish to apply to a leadership position may fill out a google form outlining the reasons for their candidacy. Based on the quality and quantity of applications, the current board members will create a panel of 3-5 potential candidates. These candidates will present their platform to the club during elections. The member with the most votes will assume the position for a one-year term. Except for impeachment elections, all elections will take place at the end of the spring semester. Impeachment will be based primarily on a leader’s failure to comply with the guidelines and procedures listed. Termination is decided based on a vote within the club: if there is a ⅔ majority vote in favor of impeachment, the current club officer or president must relinquish their position. Club members wishing to assume the vacant position will submit a google form detailing why they would be a better candidate for the vacant position. Based on the quality and quantity of the applications submitted, the remaining board members will create a panel of 2-4 potential candidates. A new vote will be held to decide who will fulfill the vacant position. On election day each candidate will be able to present their platform to the club. Based on the presentations, the club will take a vote to appoint the best candidate. The candidate with a simple majority will assume the vacant position for the rest of the term. Guidelines and procedures include, but are not limited to: Disrespecting fellow club members during meetings through the use of racial slurs, offensive language, insults, etc. Failure to fulfill designated functions of the elected role, as outlined in our club guidelines, Failure to follow the rules or codes of conduct from the school, Unexcused inactivity for more than three weeks.

What makes this activity unique?:
The main focus of our club that provides it its uniqueness is its goal to help educate the Stuyvesant community on a multitude of topics within the field of economics and demonstrate how it can change their lives and the world. Finance and financial markets are only a small part of what economics encompasses. Economics can vary from fundamental topics like homeownership or the inner workings of taxes. However, economics also encompasses many complex topics, such as the depths of supply and demand and how it affects global companies (e.g. Amazon), and the different economic systems that are utilized around the world and in history. Our goal is to represent the nuances in economics and show how interconnected the field is. We had an extremely good year last year, amassing around 130 members on our Facebook group and an average of 30 members per meeting. This year we hope to not only replicate that success but also surpass it. We also hope to continue the entrance into economics competitions.

