Mission Statement:
Making psychology fun and accessible for all students!

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
While meeting dates vary, they usually take place on Tuesdays or Thursdays. Members sign up for guest speaker events through Google Forms.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Pstuychology members gain hands-on experience through psychology-themed projects, lessons, and games. We host movie nights, mental health care workshops, and prize-rewarding competitions. Explore different social-psychological issues such as the brain’s reaction to social media, the biases present in court witness testimonies, or how being an only child affects early brain development. We create an friendly, engaging environment where students can discuss all things psychology! Each month, our club hosts guest speaker events in which students can hear about frontier research and explore various branches of psychology from current professionals. Past guest speakers include professors from top research universities like Columbia and NYU. As part of the Wellness Coalition, Pstuychology works closely with Mr. Colon and other wellness-related clubs to host school-wide events such as Stuy’s Annual Health Fair. Pstuychology welcomes anyone passionate or interested in psychology. Experience is not required to participate; in fact, anyone who wants to learn more is especially encouraged to join!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant students will have an opportunity to learn about psychology in layman’s terms. Members will be able to interact with in-field experts, participate in lecture discussions and projects, and enhance their understanding of various psychology topics. Students taking AP Psychology can also expand their knowledge beyond the curriculum and gain an idea of career prospects by connecting with college professors and practitioners. This can be a great way to explore AP Psychology even if one is not enrolled in the course, as much of our material is based on similar topics to the AP curriculum. In addition, students may receive extra credit from their teachers for attending guest speaker events, but they are still fun to come to regardless. There are relaxing activities, such as yoga sessions, and also informational activities, where students can listen to lectures and provide their own opinions. With the Wellness Coalition, Pstuychology is able to provide health information to an even broader range of clubs. What’s more, students can access the beautiful Pstuychology website, which provides valuable resume building and internship tips, volunteering/academic/research opportunities, recordings of past guest speaker events, recommended books/movies, and more. All in all, Stuyvesant is very stressful, so Pstuychology gives students the opportunity to build a community based on support and mental health awareness.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Currently, there are seven leadership positions—President, Vice President/Events Director, Guest Speaker Director, two Outreach Directors, and two Internal Affairs Directors— with responsibilities such as coordinating guest speaker events, creating club presentations, and running our social media accounts. Toward the end of the school year, active club members can apply to leadership positions via a Google Form application. After the current leaders review all the applications, candidates will be chosen based on their dedication to the club and the quality of their answers. Chosen candidates will have the rest of the year to get acquainted with their role with help from the current leaders. They will participate in informational zoom sessions and have the chance to begin conducting their own events. When a leader graduates, their position will open. As for impeachment protocols, if anyone in a leadership position is noticeably not doing their job and a majority of leaders agree, they will be removed from that position.

What makes this activity unique?:
Pstuychology is the first club at Stuyvesant to focus on psychology. Pstuychology is also the first club to provide Stuyvesant students the exclusive opportunity of attending monthly lectures featuring professionals specialized in different fields of psychology. In addition, the club runs an Instagram account, a YouTube channel, and a website dedicated to raising awareness for various social issues associated with mental wellbeing. All in all, Pstuychology is a place where students can make new friends, build helpful connections for future opportunities, and gain meaningful experiences.

