Mission Statement:
A club dedicated to bringing attention to global politics, the ethics surrounding them and preparing for the Ethics Bowl and other competitions.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Thursday, Wednesday, Tuesday, Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The club will meet at least once a week (will increase meetings as Ethics Bowl approaches). The day is currently undecided and will be based on when most leaders and members are free.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The club serves as a discussion forum for current events, political movements/decisions, different ideologies/philosophies and how historical events lead to them. There will be a focus on what could lead to an ideal world and how different ideas could get us there. The discussions will be similar to a Socratic Seminar (with no hand raising and more casual discussion) with group members being encouraged to give their own opinions with no judgement. For example, discussion topics could include "The Seperation of Art from the Artist" and "Censorship of Media and How it Differs Worldwide." 

Occasionally, there will be teacher/guest speakers who will teach and facilitate discussions. There will also be an emphasis in preparing for the National High School Ethics Bowl, a prestigous and national-accredited competition (where you discuss in groups of about 5 an ethics prompt and then counter other teams; if done well in regionals, teams can advance to nationals in Carolina). 

There will also be workshops and meetings dedicated to preparing for essay competitions related to politics, government and ethics. For example, the National High School Essay Contest, where the winner wins: a cash prize, an all expense paid trip to Washington DC and a meeting with the Head of the US Department of State. There will also be workshops dedicated to improving public speaking, voice projection and eloquence.

The club will also hold monthly competitions on current events all around the global with small prizes (such as snacks, candy and small trophies). 

Members are expected to commit to meetings once a week (with exceptions made for special circumstances and members are expected to contact leadership about absences). Members are not required, but strongly encouraged, to join the Ethics Bowl and as essays competitions as possible.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The discussion on politics will keep members informed on global news and spread information on the state of different governments (with a focus on not just the US, but the world at large). The club will provide a community of similar minded people where members can share their viewpoints in an open and judgement-free environment. Teachers and other guest-speakers, who will be experts in their fields, can teach about historical movements and ideologies in a deeper and more engaging manner. There will be a bigger focus on how political decisions affect real life people, rather than just statistics and governmental effects (in contrast to history classes). 

Workshops will help improve public speaking and teach members how to articulate their ideas in a way that is both concise and engaging. The Ethics Bowl will encourage members to discuss ethical prompts in a friendly environment (in comparison to the more competitive and heated Debate tournaments) and potentially represent Stuyvesant in a national level. Essay coompetitions will increase writing skills (which could help in English and History classes) and members could potentially win prestige and awards. Even if member do not win, it will still serve as educational and useful (for skills such as: researching, argumentative and factual writing).

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There will be an application for all leaderships, followed by an interview. All positions will be based on commitment and time dedicated to the club (rather than skill/placement in competitions). The current co-leaders will open the application and interview all applicants, before making a final decision together. In the event of suspected favortism from co-leaders, the applicant can ask for an election. In the case of an election, both the applicant and the selected candidate will present their case in front of the current club members and a vote will be taken. In the event of inadequate co-leaders, members can call for an election by contacting another leadership member, who will facilitate the election if presented with sufficient proof. If majority votes against co-leaders, members can run to be co-president and another vote will be held. Co-leaders will automatically continue their positions, unless they are graduating. Other leadership memebrs will reapply each year. 

There will be one Head Editor (in charge of a team of editors who will review essay submittions) and one Head Discussion Leader (in charge of a team of discussion leaders who will help facilitate debates during meetings). The number of editors and discussion leaders will be decided based on the total number of members (and the Head Editor and Head Discussion Leader will be in charge of team applications). There will also be one Outreach Director, who will manage the team's social media and help create promotional material (like posters).

What makes this activity unique?:
The club will focus on global politics and news (rather than most clubs' US-centric nature). This club will also be the only club participating in the National High School Ethics Bowl, representing Stuyvesant. Most debate-based organizations tend to have more hostile and nerve-wracking competitions, while Ethics Bowl and essay competitions are a friendlier and more welcoming form of argumentative dialouge. This club will also include semi-regular teacher/guest speakers who are experts in their fields. The club will also have monthly competitions on current events that ocurred that month (with small prizes like candy, snacks and small trophies).

