Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Student Union (SU) aims to bridge the gap between the school and our community by creating events and helpful policies and resources.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The Student Union Cabinet, Leadership Team and Caucus Presidents, will meet once a month for general cabinet meetings. Individual departments and executives may meet more frequently for their individual assignments and projects throughout the school year.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The SU is the student government of Stuyvesant High School, and we aim to bridge the gap between students, faculty, and administration. In doing so, we hope to foster a strong sense of community and improve the experience of every student at Stuyvesant. The SU cabinet consists of our Executive Board and 7 departments: ClubPub, Events, External Affairs, Finance, I/T, SLT, and Socials. We plan the events such as the school dances, homecoming, fundraisers, guest speakers, career fairs, SING!, etc and work to create policies that concern the student life here at Stuyvesant like the gender neutral bathrooms, cell phone policy, and more. Additionally we provide resources such as course study guides, AP and Electives selection guide, StuyVantage deals, and more. 

Our Caucus Leaders work to create their grade specific events and policies. For example, the Junior Caucus would work on Junior Prom, while Senior Caucus focuses on Senior Prom and Graduation.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Student Union represents the interests, concerns, and needs of the student body. SU offers opportunities for students to develop their leadership skills and hone their skills in decision-making, problem-solving, public speaking, and collaboration. The SU serves as a platform for students to voice their concerns, ideas, and suggestions to school administration and faculty. This representation allows students to influence policies, activities, and initiatives that affect their experience here at Stuyvesant. 

Student government members have the chance to make a positive impact on their school environment. They can initiate projects that promote sustainability, mental health awareness, diversity and inclusion, and other important causes. Student government serves as a stepping stone to understanding the broader political and civic processes. Many students who are involved in student government go on to become engaged citizens, participating in local, state, or national government activities. Being part of a student government introduces students to the concepts of democracy, governance, and civic responsibility. They learn about the democratic process, voting, and the importance of representing the interests of their peers. Engaging in student government provides students with practical experience in organizing events, managing budgets, and working collaboratively on projects. These experiences can be valuable when transitioning to higher education or the workforce.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Ten elected officials will represent the Stuyvesant student body in the Student Union. All elected officials may not partake in the highest form of leadership positions in the following large student-run organizations, which include the Stuyvesant Spectator, the Big Sibs, the ARISTA Honor Society, the Stuyvesant Indicator, and the Stuyvesant Theatre Community. The rules governing all elections shall be governed by the Stuyvesant Board of Elections (BOE) and the BOE Rules and Regulations. (From the Stuyvesant Student Union Constitution) 

Each SU President/Vice President or Caucus Presidents must run during their respective election season each academic year, either at the end or the beginning of the school year (for Freshman Caucus). If the elected officials are found to be breaking any rules or protocol detailed in the SU Constitution, an impeachment may be motioned. 

The rest of the SU Cabinet is decided via Cabinet Leadership applications where each respective elected official will appoint the executive and director role to the students who apply for Cabinet or Caucus.

What makes this activity unique?:
Our organization is unique because we as the Student Government here at Stuyvesant essentially run all of the major events in the school year. As well as, create policies and resources that benefit the entire community. The Stuyvesant SU provides the unique opportunity for students to experience the process of democratic elections, managing budgets, and working collaboratively with like minded individuals who all want to provide a better environment through helping out their fellow peers.

