Mission Statement:
Advocators for freedom and drinkers of boba. Welcome to Stuy’s Taiwan club.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meetings schedule varies throughout the year, but meetings will be held once or twice a month excluding events outside of school.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuywan will build a Taiwanese community at Stuyvesant for students to share their experiences. Creating a safe space and learning environment for those interested provides opportunities for more students to connect with the culture through songs, movie days, food crawls, classic Taiwanese games, and even some mini Taiwanese language lessons! Educational campaigns will also be hosted to raise awareness about Taiwanese history and culture in the Stuy population and share about what it means to identify as Taiwanese. As Taiwan’s global influence continues to grow, meetings will also include discussions on how Taiwan’s role in the global atmosphere influences how the Taiwanese people see themselves, highlighting their perspectives, fears, concerns, and hopes as a community. This would be a space where members can connect and learn from each other whether they’re Taiwanese or not, and welcome them to share pride in the culture. Excursions during field trips to TaiwanFest, holiday gatherings, and organized protests are a wonderful opportunity to get the chance to advocate for Taiwan’s rights, experience Taiwanese food and culture, and with collaborations with other cultural clubs, an intercultural Stuyvesant food fest could potentially be created.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuywan Club will make learning about Taiwanese culture more accessible to all Stuyvesant students by encouraging projects that build a community around discovering and sharing about all things Taiwanese. Through the Stuywan club, students are given a free space to celebrate their identities and share them with their peers, strengthening the respect and understanding for other cultures in the Stuyvesant community. These discussions and share outs can range from all topics including personal connections, childhood memories, cultural divides and immigrant struggles, and concerns for Taiwan’s future in a political and economic landscape. Members will also get the chance to gain knowledge about a culture through more engaging activities than the conventional slideshow presentation. Through meeting activities— such as historical or informational skits, trivia games, food making sessions, easy crafts, and traditional Taiwanese games— students can experience a small part of Taiwanese life, and get a window into how this aspect of one’s identity can influence the way they view the world. Stuywan hopes to help Taiwanese students at Stuy find each other, eat food together, and have fun together. Everyone should be allowed to find their place in Stuyvesant, and this club could be a good way for them to branch out, meet new people, and make more connections.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Stuywan Club currently has three co-presidents of Taiwanese heritage, two Juniors and one Sophomore, and aims to appoint at least one director for outreach, cultural exploration, and social media management through applications. Meetings will be created and led by the three co-presidents, with the input of the members on what they would like to focus on. Volunteer and protest events will be led and guided by the co-presidents as well as selected club members for different roles. Roles may include contacting outside parties, organizing materials, and promoting on social media, all of which will be decided by the co-presidents through applications. During the spring before the standing presidents graduate, they will appoint two new presidents to lead in the following year. In addition, if an issue is ever brought up by any member of the club concerning another person or a board member, then the rest of the board will come together to decide how to continue about the person of concern.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Stuywan club focuses on Taiwanese culture and enriching students’ understanding of it. With Taiwan’s place in a political tangle, and spotlight on Taiwan without access to nuanced and informed discussions of its history and culture, this club wants to facilitate discussions not only about Taiwan’s role in such a climate, but also how the nation’s fears and strengths reflect in its people. Stuywan wants to emphasize the heart of the people, and celebrate the country as more than simply a country, but as the culmination of rich history and compassion. Meeting activities are closely related to and/or designed to represent what Taiwan means to the club’s leaders and its attendees, allowing students to share their identities and perspectives while learning about others’. The activities incorporated are incredibly welcoming to anyone wanting to take part, and planned collaborations with other culture clubs demonstrate Stuywan’s dedication to providing a space for more understanding of each other’s cultures in the Stuyvesant population.

