Mission Statement:
Stuy Criminal Psychology is devoted to giving students who enjoy criminal psychology and/or true crime a place to indulge in their passions.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will vary from week to week but the set meeting days would be Wednesday and Friday.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Criminal Psychology is meant to give students who have a passion for psychology and/or true crime, a place to grow their knowledge and feel at home. Each week our club hosts 2 meetings where we dive into the minds of criminals and use psychology to evaluate and agree or disagree with different already decided or cold cases. To learn how to understand these criminals, we will be watching different educational documentaries that provide a summary of the killer's actions and then offer up our own opinions of the case while determining why the killer committed the crime. Stuy Criminal Psychology gives students opportunities to do hands-on activities that stimulate the brain and test out their theories in situations. Although there are many branches of psychology, using psychology to analyze criminals is very important for getting justice for victims and we at Stuy Criminal Psychology hope that we can create new leaders in the field of criminal psychology.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy Criminal Psychology can offer students in the Stuyvesant community an opportunity to learn about the field of criminal psychology. Members of the club will gain unique opportunities to enhance their understanding of various criminal psychology topics and be given opportunities for different criminal psychology internships. Students will also be able to expand their length of extracurriculars for college apps with the many open leadership positions and the expanse of opportunities. We also hope to partner up with different teachers to offer extra credit or different projects to our club members. After each meeting, an email will be sent out to people who missed the meeting to make sure they can still stay involved. With those emails, once a week an email will be sent out either with new interesting cases, links for presentations being given by criminal psychologists, internship opportunities, volunteering opportunities, and other projects involving criminal psychology, CSI, or true crime so we can satisfy all our member's unique passions. Additionally, another email will be sent out once a month with different book recommendations or movie recommendations that we can touch on during the meetings but mainly just to provide other interesting stories that members can learn and continue learning outside of the club room itself. In conclusion, Stuy Criminal Psychology has something for everyone and many students can find themselves busy and enjoying the time they have while participating along with all the academic benefits it has.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Currently, we have 5 leadership positions available such as social media coordinator, outreach, etc…Forms will be sent out for each position where club members can apply and we will look into all the applicants and choose which member is perfect for the job. After the leaders are chosen, they will be given time to understand their responsibilities (ex: how to organize events, how to format the social media, etc... and come up with their own ideas on how to manage the club. When one graduate, their spot will be open, and google forms will be resent out. If someone in a leadership position is not doing their job and not adding anything insightful or helpful to the club, they will be removed and stripped of their leadership position. This applies to all positions. If there are any other issues like arguments within the club, a meeting will be held and solutions will be discussed with both members and leaders.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Criminal psychology is unique because it is one of the few clubs that bring two to three concepts together. Stuy Criminal psychology is a combination of both true crime, and psychology and even includes ideas of legal processes. By joining Stuy Criminal Psychology, students who enjoy true crime podcasts can come and talk about how they feel when they hear a new case, and students who have a passion for psychology can join to learn more about that specific very important branch of psychology. Although there already is a psychology club, Stuy Criminal Psychology focuses on one specific branch of psychology, and students who want to pursue a career in criminal psychology can delve deeper and expand their knowledge in their future careers.

