Mission Statement:
To teach students about Fungi and Fungiculture.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, depending on the fungi we are growing but we meet at least once to 3 times a month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of this club is to help educate the school community about Fungi through gardening and cooking. In this club, the very first thing we will do is research mushroom species, what conditions each species needs, and then vote on which ones to grow. Next, we plan on planting the mushroom spawn and helping it thrive until we can fully harvest it. After which, we will cook it (most likely stir-fry). Members aren't required to cook it nor eat it but it is highly recommended. By tasting the fruits of your labor, you can further enrich a passion for Fungi. Join us if you are interested in anything fungi or farming related. Even if you are not, you can at least enjoy a free meal. This club is low commitment and open to anyone with any level of experience. As long as you are excited to learn more, you are welcome to come.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
There are a multitude of reasons this benefits the Stuyvesant community. A few of which are this club will teach students a sense of responsibility through nurturing mushrooms and uniqueness of Fungi. For example, Certain mushrooms only grow under certain conditions and require specific care. Students will be responsible for watering the mushrooms; checking if the humidity and temperature of the room is perfect; seeing how well the Fungi has progressed; and being poignant with harvesting time because a day too late could lead to a poor harvest. Also, Fungi are generally disregarded in the school curriculum. In biology, we have full units in which we learn all about muscle fibers in animals and photosynthesis in Plants but skip over Fungi. Most people do not even know that Fungi are not plants, they are their own separate kingdom of life. In this club, we will talk more thoroughly about the importance of Fungi such their effects on the ecosystem which goes more in detail than the "Fungi are decomposers" fact we learned in bio. Even if this club does not put "Fungi" into Stuyvesant students' daily topics of conversation, we hope that at the very least, Fungi are more widely talked about.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
This club will have 2 people in power: a president and vice president. At the end of the school year, the club will hold an election. The person who received the most votes will become president and the second highest will become vice president. If there is a tie, the candidates who tied will choose between themselves or another election will be held between two of them. There will also be team captains that each oversee a certain mushroom if the club is growing more than 1 species at a time. The president and vice president will elect the team captains. After which, the team captains will choose their team members. When new positions of power are elected, discord admin roles will be moved and the ownership of the club will be given to the newly elected president. For impeachment to happen, a majority of the members must vote in approval of the impeachment. Impeached members can not run again.

What makes this activity unique?:
"This club is going to be completely unique to Stuyvesant because Stuyvesant has never had a fungi club before. Also, it is going to be really fun. The gardening work is usually going to be very light so most of the time will be spent on chilling out and talking about Fungi. After harvesting, we are going to cook and have a great time eating. We might even have guest speakers who will come and talk about Fungiculture. 
"

