Mission Statement:
Connecting students of Stuyvesant through their shared interests in game pigeon, the messenger game.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, but we meet at least once a month. Most of our "meetings" will be online.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyGamePigeons is a laid back club that aims to connect students with their shared love and passion for game pigeons, a mobile game hub interconnected with messenger. Members of Stuygamepigeons will compete with each other through a shared group chat. Members are expected to root others on and maintain a level of healthy competition, while also creating a fun environment. Members do not always have to be active, hence the low-commitment aspect, but this club will operate online through multiple apps such as discord and messenger, making it easy for a member to join in on competitions, even with time constraints. We hope that Stuygamepigeons will help students not only play game pigeons, but also find a safe community to talk to, as gamepigeon games can often give segway into other more meaningful conversations. Members will be expected to give their emails, phone numbers, or anything that we are able to use to add them into group chat competitions. (forms will be created) In addition, regular members are encouraged to express any ideas on how to expand/use this club for the betterment of the overall community; if leaders agree on certain initiatives, a chance for a newly created leadership position will be considered.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will benefit the Stuyvesant community by serving as one of the many recreational clubs students use to ease themselves from the stresses of school life. Game pigeon is an app that is interconnected to the messenger app on I-phone, making it super convenient for students to access the app. Game pigeon is directly connected to the messenger app, thus having member’s contact information is a given aspect. Club members will spark conversation by starting a single game. Making conversations naturally manifest, thus making it easier and less awkward to connect with others. In addition, due to the light nature of game pigeon, students are able to see each other in a positive, and fun manner, contrasting the usual competitiveness of students in school life, which can oftentimes make it difficult to create connections and make friends. This club challenges the negative stigma around the motivated students of Stuyvesant and will aim to foster a community beyond academics. In conclusion, StuyGamepigeons is not only a place to play video games, but it is a means for students to disconnect from school and harbor a group of people sharing the same interests, and make connections that can last even beyond school.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions consist of a President and a vice president, and if necessary, we will add more leadership positions (depending on interest.) Leaders are impeached if they are seen as actively not interested in game pigeons, and if they are not responding to members that are in need of help. In addition, not attending the few mandatory meetings that we will have throughout the year will result in a strike, and having an unreasonable amount of strikes without previously mentioned beforehand that they will not be able to attend will automatically be seen as ghosting the club. Therefore, impeachment will be necessary in that case. Transfers in leadership will happen when either a person in leadership doesn't feel committed to the club anymore and explains that they would like to resign, or if the current leadership graduates. This will be chosen through Presidents and official leadership boards; no bias will be given. If a member brings up a good idea to expand the club and wishes to appoint themselves for a self-made leadership position, that will be deemed possible.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyGamePigeons is unique because, compared to other mobile/computer games, we are more casual and have a bigger emphasis on social interaction (since game pigeon is on messenger, all members that request to join the club will automatically be added to a group chat with other members, making it extremely easy and sometimes even necessary to communicate with others.) This club is really a way for users to easily connect with each other, get out of their comfort zone, and make everlasting friends.

