Mission Statement:
This club is focused on creating opportunities for high school students at Stuyvesant to learn more about the medical field.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meetings are usually once a month and members can sign up for many events throughout the month at different institutions.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
This club allows students to branch out and learn more about specific interests they have in the medical field. The club/organization offers many opportunities for students to engage in real life regarding medical fields. For example, the club will allow students to take tours from NYU medical institutions, Columbia laboratories, and other hands-on labs from prestigious institutions. At meetings, the club will teach members about various medical fields to boost curiosity and help students gain knowledge in these categories. This will be the official Stuyvesant Chapter of the Youth Medical Internation Association. Our purpose is to efficiently make research and medical tour opportunities accessible to all students at Stuyvesant. Many don't have the resources to apply for labs and medical tours, but Stuy YMA will make sure that these students who have a genuine passion for medicine get to experience labs and tours. In school meetings will teach kids about medical fields that might interest them such as cardiology, anesthesiology, gynecology, etc.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy YMA will benefit students in a variety of ways. It allows students to gain research experience through many engaging in real life opportunities such as labs at research centers around New York and also tours at various different well-known colleges and institutions. YMA meetings at Stuyvesant will teach students interested in the medical field about topics they can learn more about and start researching so they can have a good grasp on what topics in medicine interest them. The club is open to anyone, even if you are not sure how much you want to commit to learning medicine in the future. We will be holding monthly meetings as well as a few events throughout each month that anyone can register for. We will commute as a team and gain a lot of knowledge from well-known professors and PHD individuals at the institutions we tour. Members will also have opportunities to donate and help out at YMA fundraisers throughout New York to raise money for hospitals and orphanages around the world. Members will learn team bonding skills and leadership skills through participating in events each month at different institutions. We will also be diving into different medical professions at our monthly meetings!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership Positions that will serve on the Board of Directors are the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Information Officer, Director of Recruitment, and Chief of Social Media. Positions that are still open will be filled based on qualifications such as time spent on YMA, application potential, and awareness of the responsibilities and duties of the post. If the Board determines it is necessary, positions may be added or removed by a majority vote. The policy for the transfer of leadership and the appointment of a member to a leadership role are identical. Members will apply using Google Forms for the position they want to hold. The present Board of Directors will then decide on a mutually agreeable course of action and promptly notify candidates of their decision. Unless an excused absence is provided, members are required to attend all scheduled meetings, contribute ideas and projects, and have and maintain a strong dedication to our organization, purpose, and cause. If a member misses three consecutive strikes without providing a valid reason, their membership will be reviewed. Commitment will be highly regulated since its important that the executive team work for the club equally and very efficiently.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy YMA is unique because it directly leads students to many medical opportunities that are hard to find. It engages them in real world experiences relating to medicine and biology, which will boost their interest and knowledge in these topics. It provides students who don't know how to get opportunities with them! The club will allow them to explore many different labs at prestigious universities and institutions so that members can get the real-world sense of research they would be conducting in the future.

