Mission Statement:
HOSA's mission is to empower students to become leaders in the global health community, through education, collaboration, and experience.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will be having weekly meetings usually on Tuesdays and Thursdays. There may be more or fewer meetings depending on the needs of members. Before competitions, there may be more than two meetings a week, and preparations done through zoom and or other forms of communication.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
"Members of HOSA will be able to attend state, national and international conferences as well as competitions in different medical events. There are three categories of events: Health Science Events, Health Professional Events, Emergency Preparedness Events, Leadership Events, and Teamwork Events. Each event has its own subcategory you can compete in. The health science events include Behavioral Health, Pathophysiology, Pharmacology, Dental Terminology, Human Growth and Development, Medical Reading, Medical Terminology, Health Informatics, and much more. The Health professional events include Biomedical Laboratory Science, Clinical Nursing, Clinical Specialty, Medical Assisting, Sports Medicine, and others. The Emergency Preparedness Events include CPR/First Aid, Epidemiology, and Public Health. The Leadership Events are comprised of Health Lifestyle, Prepared Speaking, Research Poster, and more. Lastly, the Teamwork Events include Community Awareness, Forensic Science, Healthy Career Display, Health Education, and Public Service announcements. HOSA also provides a unique program of leadership development, motivation, and recognition exclusively for students enrolled in health science education and biomedical science programs or who have interests in pursuing careers in health professions. It also actively promotes career opportunities in the health industry and enhances the delivery of quality health care to all people.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
"Stuyvesant HOSA is tremendously valuable to the Stuyvesant community as it provides students with aspirations in the medical field with opportunities to further delve in. HOSA also intends to introduce students to other students who share their interests, allowing for meaningful connections. Additionally, HOSA aims to teach prospective medical students various subjects involved in the path to practicing medicine. This knowledge they will gain will be tested in competitions to assess their understanding and application of their knowledge. These competitions will be at the state and international levels. It will give students opportunities to achieve prestigious awards to polish their skills and achieve a sense of accomplishment. It will also be of benefit to those who further their studies in pursuing health professions. HOSA also helps students with time management skills, working with a group or team, and skills in communication. HOSA will also benefit students’ leadership skills which would help with their personal development and academic success allowing them to become the best they can if they pursue a career in a health profession. The activities will also help students build confidence, motivation, and enthusiasm for medicine. Lastly, students will develop an understanding of current healthcare issues and awareness of environmental concerns through competitions and meetings allowing for more informed decisions.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions include a President and Vice-President and a secretary. The Presidents are expected to plan meetings, moderate the meetings, teach the curriculum to the members, prepare the students for the competitions, and make long-term decisions for the club. The secretary will be in a more day-to-day position, where they will help manage the meetings, assess the group's understanding of concepts, ask questions that require further clarification, bring in new members, and find ways to improve the organization. More leadership positions will open based on their need and will be appointed based on applications at the end of this school year. People competing for a position will be randomly interviewed and ranked based on their applications. Once selected, the members will receive training from the counterparts they are planning to replace. Leaders will be impeached if they do not complete their tasks more than three times. Members are expected to attend most meetings as HOSA is a serious organization that functions for the majority of members. Members are further expected to engage in a respectful and accepting manner.

What makes this activity unique?:
"This organization is unique because it promotes a wide variety of things that are not seen in combination for many other clubs. For example, HOSA promotes teamwork, leadership, community service, and community awareness alongside academic knowledge related to medicine. Unlike other organizations, this is an officially recognized chapter giving value to its authenticity. HOSA provides its members with opportunities to grow their skills for their careers in the future. Lastly, this is the only medical club that allows students to test their knowledge in competitions.

