Mission Statement:
Spreading joy and happiness to individuals undergoing medical treatments by organizing events and workshops that bring smiles to their faces.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will differ throughout the year depending on the semester, but we will typically meet a few times a month to review our upcoming events and recent accomplishments. Events/activities dates will vary, but we will aim to have at least an event every month, with the exception of midterms weeks, finals weeks, and Advanced Placement (AP) weeks.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Life Lift offers students the opportunity to connect with patients through a variety of experiences which will be centered around providing comfort to those in need of aid. Members called Life Lifters will be participating in fundraising events with the goal of raising money for the materials that will be needed during the various workshops and/or events. We also intend to donate the money from our fundraisers to clinics and hospitals. Life Lifters will be expected to attend events which include (but are not limited to) transforming hospitals and clinic environments into serene and uplifting spaces through art installations and interactive projects. Other events planned may not require such high commitment, allowing members to support patients from the comfort of our own school building or even their own homes. Life Lifters should remember that our main goal is to provide a comfortable and pleasant environment for patients, where they can rest peacefully and thrive.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Life Lift Initiative gives students an opportunity to support people of all ages at nearby hospitals and clinics in each borough. Life Lifters are able to channel their creativity and compassion to uplift both patients and hospital staff, as well as satisfying themselves in doing good deeds. Our events will not only encourage creative expression from the many talented students of our school, but also inspire members who are not artistically inclined. Experiences such as these may offer Life Lifters new perspectives on life, a chance to connect with new and interesting people, and even work alongside familiar peers as we strive to enhance each patient’s mental, physical, and emotional health. Life Lifters will gain social skills when working in large groups to organize fundraisers and other activities. By providing more volunteer opportunities and chances to connect with the world around them, the Stuyvesant community gains a valuable club that produces individuals with character and consideration for the community that surrounds them. Our club strives to increase engagement among students of all ages, and we also look forward to cooperating with other clubs and organizations in future endeavors, creating a stronger sense of community among the school as a whole.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions include treasurer, secretary, outreach director, event planner, fundraising coordinator, volunteer manager, public relations officer, and photographer. These roles are appointed through a google form with questions relating to experience/commitment level and also a virtual interview with at least one of the co-presidents. Those occupying leadership positions are expected to engage with the organization more frequently and will work together with other members to make sure events go smoothly. All members should attend at least one event per school year as well as regular meetings. Interactions between members and patients should be respectful and empathetic. Adherence to the club’s mission and values is expected. Leadership transitions will occur at the end of current leaders’ graduation year. The current leaders will provide the incoming leaders with necessary guidance and resources. Removal may be necessary if a leader is unable to fulfill their responsibilities in which case, a formal warning will be issued and then a vote among the club members.

What makes this activity unique?:
The mission of bringing joy to those undergoing medical treatments is emotionally impactful and resonates deeply with the members’ empathy aiding them in becoming compassionate adults. The range of activities also adds to the organizations’ uniqueness. From arts and crafts to motivation building exercises, Life Lift Initiative requires a diverse group of volunteers with various skills and talents adding depth to the organization’s impact as well as community engagement. The events associated with the organization also allow volunteers to see the challenges others face in their daily lives, a different perspective of the world that members can’t get anywhere else.

