Mission Statement:
To provide students interested in chess an opportunity to come together and play.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will be meeting on Mondays and Wednesdays. We will be having chess lessons on Mondays (along with playing practice games). On Wednesdays, we will have practice games and host tournaments.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Chess Club meets every Monday for lessons and hosts tournaments on Wednesdays. The club aims at providing students with an interest in chess an opportunity to come together and bond in a friendly environment. Students who may want to improve their skills through playing games, reading, and discussing techniques, or who may just want to relax and have fun, are all welcome. No USCF rating is necessary. During the lessons on Mondays, we analyze games, learn vital middlegame/endgame techniques and strategies, and teach the thought process of successful players. Both members of the Chess Team and less ambitious players come to our club. The club is open to the entire student body, and has no commitment requirement; those with an interest can come and go at their ease. During our tournaments and practice games on Wednesdays, chess club members get the opportunity to compete with their fellow schoolmates.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Chess has a long history of being a problem-solving game. Chess may strengthen a student’s logical reasoning skills by giving them opportunities of calculating the opponent’s possible moves and reactions to a particular situation. But since we are human, we must decide which moves are worth calculating and which are not. Chess players can develop skills at both tactics, the well-calculated moves that may grant you an advantage or even victory, and strategy, the utilization of the positioning of pieces to impose yourself upon the opponent, and force them into a less favorable situation. Hence, it should be more understandable why the chess grandmaster Bobby Fischer famously said, “Chess is life.” Although situations on the chess board are most likely not as complex as those in real life, the different ways to think about a problem can be useful in reality, and can probably make one more intimate with his/her thought processes. On the other hand, chess can simply be relaxing, and students may like the taste of playing for its excitement, barely thinking before making the next move, testing his/her instincts at the game with a similar-strength opponent. Winning a chess game or solving a difficult chess puzzle may contribute towards self-confidence and can exercise both sides of the brain. Additionally, by joining the chess club, students will have the opportunity to volunteer at various chess organizations.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The activity appoints leaders on the basis of their commitment to the club, approval of the faculty advisor, and grade level. The leaders of the club are determined by the faculty advisor and popular opinion, and is entrusted with a key to the chess equipment. At least one leader must show up at each meeting to unlock the drawers where the chess set and clocks are. Club members should make sure everything is cleaned up, locked back, with no pieces fallen on the floor, before leaving the room. When the faculty advisor is not present, the club should be dismissed before 17:00. Skill is not a very important factor in the appointment process for club leadership. It is often seniors who filled leadership positions in the past, though juniors have a chance based on commitment and space availability. Impeachment, then, should follow failure to come regularly to the club for these procedures, or other events that makes said person untrustworthy. The club faculty advisor has the highest authority on such affairs.

What makes this activity unique?:
Our club is dedicated to an ancient board game. Throughout the past centuries, the game evolved. The strategies and game plans have changed drastically in just the past few decades because of computer engines. New ideas are constantly being created. With endless possibilities, chess allows a person to control their own fate. Unlike many other games, every decision lies in your own hands. One can meet at the Chess Club students of various personalities and styles, skill levels and professionality. Outstanding players may be allowed to join the Chess Team, a group of students who play for our school in various tournaments nationwide. By joining this club, you will be able to learn from the chess community while having a great time!

