Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Artistic Beading Club (Stuy ABC) aims to introduce students to the art of beading and develop their creativity through making 3D models.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday, Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will try to host meetings every week and will have meetings at least once a month if conditions allow. Although meeting days may vary depending on availability, we hope to host meetings on Mondays or Wednesdays. We may however ask members for their availability and  host meetings based on their schedules.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy ABC’s purpose is to spread the hobby of beading to a wider audience. The process of beading 3D models includes connecting beads with string to produce rings that will be combined to form the final model and different patterns are targeted to each model. We will be using acrylic faceted beads of sizes 4-10 mm to make models, such as lanterns, pumpkins, clovers, cubes, stars, etc. We will be distributing materials in ziploc bags whenever members want to start a new model. For certain weeks, mentors will be teaching new models in groups; members will also be given the chance to work on their own models in other weeks. Ultimately, our goal is for members to be able to make models on their own by following completed models. No experience is necessary! As we develop as a club, we plan to host polls on what models club members want to make. We encourage interaction between members and hope that more experienced members can help out the newer members. We hope they bond with each other over their shared interest of beading.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
In Stuy ABC, members will be able to relax from a stressful day and express their creativity through experimenting with new models. Our members will discover a new craft and/or build on their knowledge of this craft. We aim to foster a friendly community to make new friends, connect with old friends, share interests, chill, and be proud of our own work. Completed models can be taken home and having a collection of beaded crafts provides not only a sense of accomplishment, but also a lasting memory of Stuy. We will also be showcasing models made by our members on our Instagram account! By showing models on Instagram, it allows our members to demonstrate the work they put into each and every model. On holidays such as Christmas or Valentine’s Day, members can also make holiday-oriented models (such as candy canes and hearts) as gifts or decorations for their family/friends. There will be meetings where members will be working in groups as well, which helps foster new bonds and friendships. Our mentors will be there to guide the way from simpler to more complicated models.We hope to have enough models in the end to try and hold a fundraiser to donate back to the school or to a charity.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions will be appointed based on applications. StuyABC will be run by two co-presidents, a media manager, an outreach manager, and several mentors. New co-presidents will be chosen based on their dedication, contributions, and leadership skills before the current presidents graduate. Co-presidents will be expected to oversee all leadership roles, manage funding, and teach members. At least one co-president should be present at each meeting. Candidates for co-president are also required to be mentors before they can apply to become co-presidents. The media manager will be in charge of our Instagram account, while the outreach manager will create posters for recruitment and organize fundraisers. Mentors are expected to help out and guide members in the process of making models. Applications to become a mentor will be sent out at the start of every semester and new mentors will be chosen based on their participation, skill level, and availability. However, leaders and mentors will be impeached if they constantly skip meetings or disrespect others (bullying or assault in any form). Our faculty advisor will be notified and current leaders will discuss the final decision of either impeachment or suspension.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy ABC is one of the few clubs at Stuy that uses beads as the primary material to make arts and crafts. The only materials needed are string and beads and using those materials, models will be formed by repeatedly looping the string after the desired number of beads has been added. You can also make a variety of models through beading, ranging from animals to accessories (keychains, home decorations, decorations for bags, etc) to name plates.

