Mission Statement:
To create an organization that spreads awareness about climate change by presenting research about its chemical and socio-political ramifications.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies depending on the availability of the board members and team members, but we meet at least twice a month after school and once every month virtually. Virtual meetings will be held at times when time zone issues would not be a problem.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Although people generally are aware of climate change, most don’t understand the true significance of what is actually occurring on a smaller scale. As an international organization, “The Earth Project” aims to conduct and spread research in lesser-known fields, such as socio-politics and chemistry, while providing basic information on world impact. Additionally, “The Earth Project” will partner with other organizations (and international leaders!) to host newsletters and webinars on the website. At the end of every month, the website will have a new edition in the newsletter, called “Alk-Allies.” In this edition, the goal is to have around 2-3 articles written by board members and members who are interested in covering a climate issue. To prepare for the newsletter, board members will host an in-person meeting to discuss the potential topics for each month’s newsletter, and members will decide whether they would like to work alone or in groups. The newsletter will cover the recent environmental events from different countries that leaders are from, such as Japan, Ecuador, Spain, Korea, and Canada, and the newsletter articles will cover the environmental issue from the perspective of the people living in the respective country! As “The Earth Project” community grows, the board members will slowly implement in-person events, such as park or beach clean-ups, fundraisers for monthly charities of choice, and partnering with other institutions (i.e. public libraries, schools, etc) to present if possible. As for the role in Stuyvesant, “The Earth Project” strives to generate a school-based community that is interested in learning and spreading awareness; generate volunteer hours based on participation in writing monthly newsletters; and set up fundraisers, in-person events, and webinars.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
“The Earth Project” strives to benefit the community by promoting an atmosphere in which members can learn about the different aspects of climate change, big or small. Additionally, the club strives to empower the youth by creating an international community in which members will be able to develop communication and collaborative skills during presentations and guest-speaker events. Ranging from minute chemical alterations in the atmosphere to larger scale human and animal suffering, “The Earth Project” strives to tackle how climate change impacts the entire world around us. To do this, as stated earlier, members will update the newsletter every month with new editions, but to ensure that the articles cover the perspective of people outside of Stuyvesant, the international ambassadors will help interview people from their countries to add more depth and variety to the perspectives covered in the articles. By doing this, the newsletter will cover world impact as opposed to regional and New York impact. “The Earth Project” offers a community in which people actually learn about the real situation regarding the current climate issue by tackling more difficult concepts, such as mass politicization of climate and how certain companies and governmental organizations benefit from exploiting nature. On the website, there is an entire section labeled “socio-political impact,” which members will update with recent information along with the other sections. Lastly, our community hopes to connect “The Earth Project” to both environmental and cultural organizations, both within and outside of Stuyvesant to host a “joint” article, if possible, and fundraise for various environmental charities. For fundraising, members will also have opportunities outside of Stuyvesant, events in which board members and volunteers will commute to various locations to spread the message of “The Earth Project” and collect donations.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
In terms of leaders, “The Earth Project” has a main board, which consists of the founders, vice president, outreach directors, social media directors, international ambassadors, etc. The main board is responsible for managing the online newsletter along with other presentations, virtual meetings, and in-person events. Since “The Earth Project” is solely based on research, all members who join the community will have an opportunity to publish an edition of the newsletter, known as the “Alk-Allies,” on the website. Once a member publishes at least one newsletter, the member will receive the title of a “researcher.” One can potentially be promoted to an “executive researcher” role by contributing to many editions in the newsletter (preferably 3 or 4 per semester). Overtime, if an executive researcher proves their dedication and strong writing skills, they will attend a meeting with the main board, in which they can choose to remain an executive researcher or advance to an editor. The difference between an executive researcher and an editor is that an executive researcher will be responsible for generating and facilitating research articles every month by working with researchers (i.e. writers) whereas an editor will gain access to all articles published every month and be able to correct any grammatical or comprehension errors. Every year, with the Board members graduating, “The Earth Project” will need new dedicated members to take their place. To promote members, board members will schedule an interview in May along with a written Google Form questionnaire. After this process, the main board will have a meeting with the candidate members to make a final decision. In terms of impeachment, if any member is found to have a) plagiarized an article, b) abused their leadership role, or c) missed more than three consecutive meetings without an excuse, other members of the Board will cast votes to either remove the member from the Board if they are on the Board or remove the member from the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
When people hear “environmental activism,” they associate it with biology and biochemistry. However, “The Earth Project” extends beyond just these areas: it covers all aspects of impact, including green chemistry, social impact, and politics. A big part of “The Earth Project” is green chemistry, and on the website, members will publish editions in a newsletter, known as “Alk-Allies,” and schedule webinars covering various chemistry-related topics, such as the molecular structure of greenhouse gas particles, radiopharmaceuticals, etc. The other main part of “The Earth Project” is socio-political impact. On the website, members cover recent news related to climate change and pressing governmental concerns about the environment, such as the Willow Project and other legislation. The club strives to differentiate “The Earth Project” from the cliche image of “climate change” by focusing on how people from all around the world are impacted in micro or macro ways due to this issue. “The Earth Project” believes in educating others with in-depth chemistry knowledge, while also learning to build compassion for those who are suffering under climate change. “The Earth Project” is not just a school club - it extends beyond the school environment with an international youth-based committee from all areas, some beyond NYC and in various countries, such as Japan, Korea, Spain, Canada, etc. This club is a chapter of a larger international organization, and “The Earth Project” will partner with other environmental organizations.

