Mission Statement:
Stuy MMA intends to teach students how to fight in MMA, improve physicality and confidence, strengthen the body, hone the mind, and sharpen the spirit

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The club will meet one to two times a week, usually on Mondays and/or Fridays. There will be at least 4 and up to 8 meetings in a month. This schedule should stay pretty consistent throughout the year.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The teachers of the Stuy MMA club want to spread their knowledge and love for the sport of mixed martial arts. They will train students to become better, more disciplined athletes and fighters, but more importantly, well-rounded people. A normal practice might consist of kickboxing/muay thai style pad work, takedown drills, then learning a new Jiu-Jitsu technique, and finishing off with light, safe (not to mention supervised), and contained MMA sparring. Students are expected to show up on time, after school, at 3:45 to get changed and geared up for the training session. They should be serious about their training and have that be reflected through their focus during training. The relative strictness is due to safety and security concerns. This club will not only build physical strength, but mental fortitude too. The idea of being relentless, pushing forward through the pain to ultimately be the best you can is very important. But MMA is also a sport that requires a lot of intelligence, whether it is in studying an opponent, or improving certain techniques with minute details, or developing a personal style. MMA is a form of physical chess, and just like in chess, different personalities and expressions can be formed and developed through the way you move and act within that art form, which can spill into your everyday life. It’s not just about the physical part of life that MMA improves, it’s also the mind.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyMMA is beneficial toward students’ overall health. This includes, obviously, physical health; movement is key to a healthy lifestyle, a well established fact. The majority of time spent partaking in club practices will be doing high intensity cardio and conditioning. However, balance, muscular strength, tendon and joint health, small and stabilizing muscle, bodily awareness are often overlooked, and are greatly promoted by MMA. Similarly, the mental aspect of MMA is frequently forgotten as well: discipline, compassion, respect, the ability to learn and adapt, as well as general brain health is a major part of MMA. This type of activity forces participants to think, observe, react. And not to mention, taking care of your body, being such a big part of MMA, always leads to unexpected, always positive results! From moving in ways you never have before or thought you lost forever, to improving your reactions, to being able to think better due to better oxygen intake and blood flow, to realizing you can now fall and not getting hurt, there is a vast application to everyday life. Not to mention, rather than promoting violence, MMA discourages violence by giving participants confidence, patience, and discipline. These character traits are sorely lacking and not properly encouraged and fostered in today’s youth, leading to discontent and danger. If one can nurture those traits now, the value to be added to their life is untold. Not to mention situations of self-defense, when the issue is forced upon you, and de-escalation hasn't stopped the aggressor, anyone who knows even a little bit about mixed martial arts and practical fighting is more likely to come out of dangerous situations alive.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The responsibility positions of the club will only be instructors and a captain/co-captains. Appointment of captains will be done by vote, by all members of the club. A captain may leave on their own terms, or they could be uninstalled from power by vote of the entire club, vote of other leaders, or executive decision by one leader (only in extreme cases where a leader promotes dangerous activity or does not fit with the spirit of the club.) Otherwise, existing leaders stay until graduation or resignation, and they will choose candidates as their successors. This is all to ensure that choosing leadership is not a popularity contest, but a genuine attempt to promote safety and community. It is ultimately up to the good judgment of the people how leaders will be chosen and removed, due to the uniqueness of each possible situation and offense that arises, so our policy cannot be too strict. Any and all instructors must be relatively well versed in MMA, have genuine interest and care in the wellbeing of the club and members, and cannot promote a toxic or harsh environment. If instructors fail to meet standards, they will be evaluated by captains, and may be removed or banned. If club members fail to meet standards (e.g. creating a dangerous environment), they may be evaluated by captains and the overseeing instructor of the incident, and also be banned. In the case of a captain failing to meet standards, co-captains can remove them executively, instructors can together evaluate the situation and choose to deal with the situation based on severity, or in an extreme violation any and all club members can voice their dissatisfaction, which will then cause an immediate investigation by all other captains and instructors.

What makes this activity unique?:
MMA is itself a unique sport. It is an upcoming, more modern sport that has become popular across the world. Although fighting is nowhere near being a new concept, it has been revolutionized by promotions such as ONE and the UFC where fighters become smarter each generation. It will be especially unique in Stuyvesant, where a lot of the students have no experience in the martial arts world, or no experience training anything. Bringing it to Stuyvesant provides a way for students to get stronger physically and mentally while promoting the melting pot characteristics and development of ideas that are so strongly associated with humankind, America, New York, and Stuyvesant. It is a sport where all have something to share, and a sport where all have something to learn. MMA is very artistic, but also an effective form of physical activity and combat. MMA differs from traditional martial arts due to the constant evolution and transfer of ideas, concepts, techniques, and styles, being a very free flowing sport.

