Mission Statement:
StuyAI aims to teach anyone, including complete beginners, how to make and improve their own meaningful machine learning models and learn about AI.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
StuyAI usually has meetings at least once a week (unless there are vacation days). We will almost always have a meeting on Tuesday (where we will discuss concepts), but we may have optional activities. This club is low commitment, so it would be fine if someone couldn't occasionally meet here and there. Just go to the ones that you love the most. We will know about busy weeks, such as the week before the midterms, so it's OK if you can't come for a meeting then.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Throughout the past few years, everybody (even those living under rocky rocks) has seen the advancements of AI and its increasing number of applications in society. AI's novelty and power can make it seem overwhelming and complex. This topic can seem intimidating enough to lead people to believe that learning about artificial intelligence or developing models and projects is infeasible, too costly, or simply enormously tricky. People could even start to fear artificial intelligence or, even worse, believe in it mindlessly. 
	AI can seem complex and opaque, so this club exists to make the field more transparent. In this club, we teach concepts and guide our members as they collaborate, construct, and compete with a focus on AI. Through weekly lessons, this club will create at least three projects over the year to tackle issues that impact society in general and this school. We teach our members AI-related concepts, discussing their importance, benefits, shortcomings, and growth prospects while also giving more computer-oriented ways to implement them through code. StuyAI does this with engaging lessons, games, tasks, and discussions.
	AI is not just for the programming geeks or TensorFlow tryhards. It's for everybody, and thus, it should be accessible to everyone, regardless of programming level. That's why this club has two separate lessons each week, one for anyone interested in the workings behind AI and another for people who want to learn about using it in their code and projects. Even those with experience with artificial intelligence can learn more and join a community of people venturing into the vast world of artificial intelligence.	AI does not exist in a vacuum; its application determines its potency. There are many places where AI could help communities. This club tries to find the most impactful way to apply AI. Beyond that, the community benefits when a group of students have a deeper understanding of AI. Anyone today needs to understand what is happening in AI; therefore, we aim to educate as many people as possible.
	Our club’s most important goal is to spread knowledge. This club grows awareness of AI outside its member base and even the broader community. This is done through events, fun facts, and projects that look to the larger community. As time passes, knowledge about artificial intelligence will become essential to understanding our world.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyAI benefits its members and the school community by spreading knowledge, providing a community of focused members, and producing projects to help the school. It is not only for enthusiasts to have fun. StuyAI is for the entire school community and is meant to bring knowledge of AI to the whole student body.
	Our members will develop valuable programming, data analysis, and problem-solving skills through projects, lessons, and other activities. Our members can use AI tools more effectively due to a deep understanding of what’s happening behind the curtains when they type a prompt for a large language model or an image generator. As they attend more meetings and complete club projects, they will better understand AI's immediate and long-term impact, including how it could be applied in their future career. Most importantly, they will be able to develop an understanding of AI to filter through what they hear online. Beyond that, the knowledge gained could also help them create their own AI projects, which they can use to improve the world around them. No matter the experience level, knowledge about artificial intelligence will benefit the individual who has it and, by extension, the people around them.
	StuyAI is what its leaders wish they had when they started learning AI. Self-studying a topic such as AI is frustrating and challenging, making it hard to gain motivation or affirmation. This club helps provide a way for people to connect with others interested in AI and struggle through a challenge together. All our lessons have different levels, so we will ensure that you are always slightly challenged but not overwhelmed. Our club offers you a chance to learn something you may not have considered exploring before while equipping you with the resources you need to ultimately make you feel accomplished after learning a challenging topic. 
	Beyond the individual members, Stuyvesant as a whole will benefit from this club. Every year, we will have at least one project focusing on helping the school community. It could be anything, from a classifier to determine where you should put your trash to checking the escalators. As a school renowned for its strength in STEM, Stuyvesant is missing a large community where people can gain an understanding of AI. It provides another way for students to learn something that interests them.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
When there is an empty position, individuals who have attended at least two-thirds of all meetings and are interested in such a position in the club will be invited to apply for that position. Their application should highlight their qualifications, expertise, and passion for AI. A thorough evaluation process will be conducted to ensure the selection of capable and dedicated individuals who will contribute to the club's goals. After the current leaders have reviewed candidates, they will be invited to teach a lesson about artificial intelligence and will be judged on engagingness, quality of teaching, and overall impressiveness. After all the candidates have taught a class, the club will vote on who should fill the vacant leadership positions. 
	In an impeachment case, a transparent and fair process will be followed. A formal complaint, whose template can be accessed by all club members, can be filed, triggering an investigation. If the allegations are found valid, a vote will be held among club members to decide on the impeachment. A club leader will need a two-thirds supermajority to be impeached, along with the agreement of the other leader(s). These procedures ensure that our club operates with integrity, accountability, and the utmost commitment to teaching our members. In essence, this club will run as a democracy.

What makes this activity unique?:
There are no active clubs within this school besides this club that have meetings focused on teaching members how to create machine learning models or giving them the resources and community to complete their passion projects. This club is for everyone, not just those knowledgeable or gifted in computer science. Besides that, this club will focus on teaching students how to make machine learning models while also providing other resources for students who want to go further in their studies of AI. We will teach our members how they can develop meaningful models while teaching them where those models can be applied with the greatest impact on the community.

