Mission Statement:
Stuy Girls Handball is dedicated to spread the love of this sport by introducing it to a wider audience and providing first hand experience.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings will be held monthly on either Mondays, Tuesdays or Thursdays. Though meetings may occur more frequently in the Spring.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Everyone is invited and welcomed to partake in this club to learn more about the sport or to find people to play with. This sport is extremely fun and exciting! This is a club about encouragement and passion. No prior experience is necessary to join. The club will be hosting meetings to help develop players’ skills and to cultivate a friendly and open community. When playing the sport, leaders will ensure to maintain a safe and positive environment for players to improve on their skills and enjoy their time playing. When meetings are held during the winter, they will be hosted indoors and consist of learning the technicalities and strategies needed in handball. While other meetings will be focused on enhancing technical skills by playing on a court with fellow club members. This club believes in creating an environment where everyone feels valued and supported, regardless of their level of expertise.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This club will benefit the Stuyvesant community through fostering and encouraging skills that are needed for a team to collaborate; such skills that can be used in our everyday lives. Communication between partners, collaboration, comradery, and enrichment of skills used in handball will all be demonstrated and enhanced through becoming a part of this club. The club also emphasizes the importance of being a team member and working well with one another. Members of the girls Varsity team will work with club members to ensure a healthy community to learn and apply these skills. This club will serve as a way for those who are interested in handball to connect, have a fun time playing together, and form a tight-knit community. The club will also be a good introduction for those who are interested in becoming a part of the athletics community here at Stuy, as handball is a good and healthy exercise that will improve one's hand-eye coordination, along with several other crucial skills. Both physical and mental expertise will be developed, which will not only benefit you as a person, but also the community you are a part of. The club believes that by joining, you will be able to gain valuable experiences.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The club will have a co-presidency based on the current captains on the girls Varsity team. Leaders will be chosen accordingly after current leaders graduate. New leaders will be chosen based on their commitment and dedication to the club. They will be responsible for running and planning meetings, directing everyone when going out for a play session, teacher novice players, and also mediating any conflicts that may arise. This club stresses the importance of benevolence and amity between all members. Anything less will not be tolerated and removal will occur if such values are failed to be upheld. In addition, the club embraces an open community and encourages open communication between the board and its members, meaning any misconduct should be reported to the board. There’s no need to be apprehensive when it comes to any situations. The leaders will strive to maintain a cordial relationship with all of the club’s members.

What makes this activity unique?:
Handball stands out as a distinctive sport unlike any other. It centers around individuals or small groups competing with one another against a wall. Players rely on the rebounding capabilities of the wall, strategically maneuvering the ball in hopes to outsmart the opponent. The aspect of this fast paced sport emphasizes elements of agility, precision, accuracy, and rapid-decision making. The unique combination of physical capability and tactical thinking makes handball an exhilarating sport. Handball truly embodies a multifaceted experience that goes beyond the boundaries of the game itself.

