Mission Statement:
ACS Chemistry club's mission is to help students further their understanding of AP Chemistry, chemistry in general, as well as assistance with labs.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our club plans to meet every Friday. However, these weekly meetings are not definite and are subject to change depending on the availability of the members. To ensure that the greatest number of members can make it to the meetings, we will conduct a poll in our Facebook group to see which day of the week is more convenient for members. In addition, we will always post a reminder on upcoming events in our Facebook group to remind our members. We will usually meet 2-4 times per month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The ACS Chem Club is meant to provide the students of Stuyvesant High School with an advanced learning of chemistry and other STEM-related fields outside of class (while being in one). Students who join will become a part of the large ACS community, a national program that will connect them with people all across the country in the STEM field. These connections will allow us to connect with professors and other distinguished guests part of ACS to conduct online webinars for members and anyone else who wishes to follow along. Online experiments will also be conducted with resources provided by the ACS and reliable resources that the board discovered online, providing new and unique experiences for those who join. We also want to help students develop professionally through resume building and college preparation. Members are expected to attend meetings (although there may be some breaks during the school year where students can choose not to attend, such as during exam season), participate in activities, but most importantly, to have fun and enjoy themselves!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Our club provides many benefits for the school. One major benefit this club provides is a friendly environment where club activity doesn't have to only be a thing done for colleges but also something students can have fun in. Not only this but this club will also serve to develop and nurture student's interest and fascination in the STEM fields, especially chemistry. If some members are struggling with Chemistry, we can also do some tutoring lessons from upperclassmen who have already taken the class. Also, this club will expose students to research and intern opportunities hosted by the American Chemical Society by inviting professors with an ACS membership and past ACS interns to be guest speakers at meetings. We also plan to do some college planning and lectures hosted by some current college students to help juniors and seniors navigate the college journey and have a better picture of what college life is. These college help will also serve to decrease some stress in the student body, especially when college is basically a new home for the students. Also, with Stuyvesant being such a competitive school we hope to create an environment where people can relieve stress and not worry about competing against each other. Aside from academic benefits, we just want the members to meet new people and make new friends.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
All positions in our club are given to new people each year through a strict appointment procedure. The next three co-presidents are chosen by the current presidents with consideration of their interaction with fellow club members and their engagement in the club throughout the year. After the co-presidents are appointed, they will be responsible for appointing the position of vice president(s). The vice president(s) is appointed after answering questionnaires that assess their interest and abilities and undergoing an interview. The presidents are responsible for running the club, setting plans for future events, reaching out to possible candidates that want to speak in the webinar, and overseeing the order of the club. The vice-president’s job is to assist the president in running the club and setting up webinars and events. In addition, all members with leader positions are expected to fulfill all their duties in the club, do their best to help the other members, and try their best to make it to each club meeting. As for impeachment of either the presidents or vice presidents, that will be brought into consideration if they show consistent lack of dedication to the club without proper reason. All the members will vote towards a final decision.

What makes this activity unique?:
Our club will be supported and recognized by an established science publishing organization (ACS or American Chemical Society). Another unique quality of our club is that we will be inviting professors from various universities with ACS membership to be guest speakers at our club. These guest speakers will introduce to us the research projects they have done and some details on the nature of their work. We also plan to invite past ACS interns as guests to share their experiences working in a laboratory setting with a mentor and provide examples of other opportunities that current students of Stuyvesant can take advantage of. Finally, we also hope to bring in the nature of college assistance by asking current college students to host webinars and share their thoughts and advice.

