Mission Statement:
The Competitive Chemistry Club helps students pursue interests in chemistry through peer support.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The current plan is to meet two to three times a month but this may vary according to the needs of the club's members.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Competitive Chemistry Club aims to help students develop an understanding of chemistry topics while preparing them to take part in chemistry competitions like the USNCO, ChemiCo, and the ACOT. The primary focus will be going over all the topics covered on the USNCO which overlaps almost entirely with a first year general chemistry course. However, the material will be taught at a level slightly above the AP Chemistry curriculum. To supplement these lessons, question sets will be provided with worked solutions so that members can practice the skills they learn. These lessons and these problem sets will support the club’s purpose of helping more students pursue their enjoyment of chemistry. This will help combat the learning curve of chemistry as well. Ultimately, the purpose of the Competitive Chemistry Club is to facilitate students’ interest in chemistry and to spread more interest in chemistry by providing the support they need to excel in the subject.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
When new members join the club, they will be immersed in a supportive community with a passion for chemistry. Weekly lessons will cover material taught in chemistry classes at Stuy. This will aid all students, those that are struggling in their chemistry classes and those who are looking for further educational material and resources. Lessons will also prepare students for competitive chemistry through extensive problem sets. These resources will reinforce skills learned. For students struggling in the
subject, leaders of the club are more than willing to invest time and resources to aid them. Furthermore, giving students the resources to participate in competitive chemistry will ensure students will be able to pursue their interests at a higher level. This accumulates to a widened community of students able to enjoy chemistry. Additionally, the competitive chemistry club creates a tight-knit environment for people that want to expand their knowledge of chemistry. This can be incredibly beneficial to underclassmen looking to learn more about chemistry but are not given the classes to increase their knowledge. This can also be incredibly beneficial to upperclassmen looking to spread their knowledge of chemistry and their passion for the subject. In summary, the club will not only be a place to do chemistry, but it will also be a nexus point for people to make connections with like-minded individuals.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There will be a select number of captains every year. The club will start with 2 but this number may increase to accommodate the number of members we have. Some of these captains will be in charge of creating materials to assist in lessons and the rest will help make practice materials designed to help our members retain information and gain quality practice with competition questions. These members will be expected to regularly attend meetings and provide new materials for each meeting. If more captains are needed or certain captains graduate, a recruitment process will occur based on merit and commitment to the club. If captains consistently fail to fulfill their roles, a vote will be held among all the members to decide if they are allowed to retain their leadership position. If needed, a Director of Social Media who will be in charge of publicity and attracting more members to our club will be elected.

What makes this activity unique?:
This is the only club to provide lessons and practice on all the units in a first-year general chemistry course. This means, in a given year, many chemistry topics will be studied instead of focusing on a select few. We will create a judgment-free environment where first-time chemistry takers and experienced chemistry students can come to receive help from each other. We are focused on providing support and valuable experience for members of any grade in an effort to cultivate a love for chemistry

