Mission Statement:
The Diorama Club is a community dedicated to learning architectural styles and skills by creating depictions of real or fictional buildings.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The first meeting for the start of each project will be in-person. This meeting will be roughly 30 minutes. From then on, the Diorama Club hopes to schedule at least 4 online meetings a month to model digitally. These meetings will be hosted on Zoom and will likely be 30 minutes to an hour. Afterward, longer in-person meetings, also at least 4 times a month, are required to work on physical models. In-person meetings may extend to roughly two hours.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Diorama Club provides a space for students to learn building design that is otherwise difficult to find in Stuy. Club members will vote for specific locations and styles of architecture to recreate in a club project. Each member will be assigned one building within a chosen location. At the start of each semester, leaders will host an online meeting to teach new members skills in Sketchup for digital modeling. Using their digital model as a reference, students will recreate buildings using cardboard and wood. A project is completed when all members finish and assemble their buildings onto one large base, modeled after the location's landscape (made by club leaders). At the start of a new project, members who choose to participate should be prepared to work on the project until completion. In the case that a member decides to abandon the project, their building will be assigned to the leaders or new members. Members should also be cautious around dangerous tools used in construction, such as blades and hot glue guns.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant community needs opportunities to engage in architectural pursuits. To tackle this issue, Diorama Club allows students to build skills for architecture-related careers and interests. Members will be taught to use Sketchup, a digital program commonly used in the field of architecture for 3D modeling. Additionally, members will learn how to create miniature structures using basic and cost-efficient materials. Students with interests in architecture and construction will discover a community of like-minded people. As each member works on a building, they will learn building design and modeling skills independently, while also learning to collaborate with other members to create a single, comprehensive group project. The ability to work in a team is crucial in most career paths, especially for architects, landscape designers, and other careers involving design and modeling. By the end of each project, students will learn how specific locations affect the structure and function of its buildings, leading to different architectural styles. Joining the club can also provide Stuyvesant students with a great opportunity to destress after a long day. The club allows students to work as they please, whether they prefer to work independently or to mingle with their friends. The Diorama Club encourages all students to join, regardless of their level of experience.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
President - responsible for planning and teaching lessons on digital and physical modeling.
Vice President - aids the President with their responsibilities, including teaching club members.
Head of Advertising - runs social media accounts and is responsible for the promotion of the club.
The club administrators will build the base of each project. More positions may be created in the future if necessary.
Club members can apply for open leadership positions with a form at the end of the year. Leaders should be able to answer questions and help members with issues they face while creating their building. In order to effectively address members' potential concerns, leaders should have experience with using Sketchup and assembling buildings. Members will be given a form at the end of the year to voice any advice or criticism they have for their leaders. Leadership may be revoked when a leader refuses to change despite criticism against their leadership style and/or general behavior. Their position will be open for application and will be available to all members except those who have previously lost leadership. 
Members of the Diorama Club are expected to keep both themselves and others safe from harm by acting responsibly when using dangerous tools during construction. Any injuries caused by irresponsible behavior will lead to restricted use of tools and repeated violations will result in dismissal of membership. The club is expected to always be a safe space for members and inappropriate language will not be tolerated.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant High School has minimal opportunities for students interested in art-related fields to pursue their passions. The Diorama Club aims to connect students through this shared passion by collaborating together to recreate buildings in real or fictional locations. This club is also one of the few that create crafts on a large scale. As each finished project will depict a different location, every year will end with a unique memento to remember the good memories and new experiences made in the club.

