Mission Statement:
Stuy Pensthetics aims to spread a love for modern calligraphy through the art of bullet journaling, penpalling, and other fun activities.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
There will be weekly meetings (meeting days will depend on member availability). This club is low commitment—members can come whenever they can/ want to, but it is recommended that they come to a meeting once a week as this is when the pen pal exchange between club members will occur.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Pensthetics purpose is to explore the art and different aspects of calligraphy as well as develop new skills involving calligraphy and journaling that can be used in students’ everyday lives. Stuy Pensthetics also aims to create a space for students to connect and bond as well as relieve stress after school. Stuy Pensthetics wants students to work together and build friendships through the art of calligraphy. In addition, students do not need to have previous experience or be talented in calligraphy to join this club, as this club is open to both beginners and non-beginners alike. Stuy Pensthetics wants students to harness a new love for the beauty of calligraphy, writing, and fancy handwriting. Stuy Pensthetics also allows people with similar interests to collaborate on various unique projects (holiday cards, birthday cards, decorating pen pal letters, bullet journalling, etc), as well as making the writing experience more enjoyable for everyone.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy Pensthetics is a place for all calligraphy enthusiasts to meet and destress after a busy school week, as well as support and encouragement from fellow club members. This is important as Stuy is known for their rigorous schedule and coursework. Students will be able to write prettier pen pal letters, more legible confession letters to their crush, and have more fun taking notes in class. The club will also cultivate future Big Sibs with better handwriting so they can make their homeroom posters more aesthetically pleasing. Stuy students will improve their penmanship and make it easier for teachers to read their work. Bullet journaling is also a fun way for students to stay organized. This club allows students to make new friends and fosters a close knit community of students who share an interest in calligraphy. Club members will also exchange monthly pen pal letters with another student and get to know their fellow schoolmates better—this will happen monthly. Students will hone skills that are important for future writing and test taking (neat handwriting always helps!). The members will also be provided the supplies needed for club activities, which will allow them to have hands-on experience with calligraphy rather than simply watching a video or live demonstration.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The President and Vice Presidents were already chosen for this term due to their experience with calligraphy, penpalling, and bullet journalling. Once the President graduates, the vice-presidents will become Co-Presidents or President and Vice President. If for any reason, any leader misses too many meetings, greatly offends someone, produces hate speech, or anything of that matter, they will be impeached through a discussion with the leadership board and a majority vote within the club. Any member is allowed to apply for a leadership position. Leaders will be appointed by current leaders based on their experience and dedication to the club. There will be an application and interview process to evaluate the applicators. If necessary, there will be other leadership positions such as budget/ inventory manager(s), and those will be appointed using similar procedures. While not being an official leader, members are allowed to teach/ lead some club meetings, as long as they inform the presidents first and show that they have the experience and capability to lead the class.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Pensthetics is the only club at Stuyvesant that focuses on the art of modern calligraphy. Stuy Pensthetics not only explores the art of penmanship but also allows one to expand their knowledge and use their skills for other creative purposes: bullet journalling, penpalling, and more. Stuy Pensthetics is different from other clubs who also allow their members to pen pal in that our club focuses on actual letter pen palling rather than using online pen palling sites to penpal with people from all around the world.

