Mission Statement:
A place where students can learn the fundamentals of boxing and do some exercise.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule won't really be rigid but we'll aim to meet around twice a month or more if possible. Meetings will be held on Friday for convenience. Meetings are not mandatory but members are expected to show up a handful of times per semester.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Boxing is one of the most physically intense sports and is popular throughout the world, especially in the USA. StuyBoxing is a place is a place for fans or even newcomers to boxing to enjoy the sweet science behind the sport and develop basic fundamentals. In addition, members can learn basic discipline and and work on their physical shape. Members will get to practice a variety of skills such as the main punches in boxing—jab, cross, hook, uppercut—as well as work on their footwork through drills and jump roping. We will also work on fitness, especially cardio which is a crucial aspect of boxing. No experience is required to join and we welcome everyone to meetings. Meetings won't be mandatory and there won't be any problems if you miss meetings but it is preferred that you show up when you can. Members that show passion and dedication to the club may be rewarded with leadership positions in the future.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant is in need of a space for all boxing fans. 2023 is a massive year for the sport as many fan-favorite matchups occurred throughout the year. This has brought clusters of fans into the sport and it’s only right to make a home for the new fans within Stuyvesant. Stuyvesant doesn't have a place for boxing fans besides the elective which is exclusive to juniors and seniors, so a club can be a place for those wanting to become a boxer, or just breeze through the stairs trying to get to their next class. Boxing is a physically intensive sport and will help members to discipline themselves, and push themselves beyond their comfort zones. This club can be a place for members to learn from each other without the fear of getting judged. People with more experience will help those with less experience together, everyone will strive to become the best version of themselves. Online meetings may also be held to watch boxing matches, learn new skills and strategies, and just discuss opinions about the boxing world. We hope that students can meet new people and form new bonds, whether friendships, rivalries, or a bit of both! Club leaders do not necessarily have to be very good at the sport but should understand fundamentals and be able to help members whenever needed. Members and leaders can work in tandem to help each other improve as boxers and in different physical aspects. At Stuyboxing, we will learn many new combinations, enhance footwork, and increase our stamina through cardio. It doesn’t matter where anyone is with experience, as everyone will start at the bottom and build to the top with the support of each other.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The appointment of leadership positions is determined by how often a member attends meetings and how passionate they are about the club. The more meetings members attend, the more experience they may gain and the more qualified they'll be to lead the club. Currently, the club will have a president and a vice president. In the middle of the school year, a Google Form will go out that will ask whether a member would want to apply for a leadership position. After that, a vote will be held by everyone in the club and a final decision will be made by the leader and Vice President whether the person will have a leadership position within the club or not. If a person is given a leadership position, they are expected to aid members to the best of their ability. Leaders should attend meetings consistently, help members when possible, and contribute to discussions. Leadership positions will be determined at the beginning of each year through a Google form application but committed members may apply for a position and may be approved depending on their qualifications and dedication. If a situation arises where a leader must be removed or changed, a vote will be held and the majority decision will be taken. This would most easily be found when we hold semester review forms that would allow members to reflect upon the club after the end of each semester. In these forms, everything will be anonymous and the feedback will be taken seriously by the leaders. If proper action is required, then it will be taken to keep our environment friendly and safe.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyBoxing is a place where anyone can come to hang out with friends, work out on cardio, discuss about the sport, or learn specific combinations. Currently, the only place where students can practice boxing is the elective which isn't open to sophomores and freshmen. StuyBoxing gives everyone the space to share their love of boxing with others no matter their age. No experience is required and it'll be a place where we learn from each other. In addition, non-boxing fans can come to learn about the sport without having to commit to participating in the sports talk aspect of the club. Members that do watch boxing matches will be able to converse with one another about the match, their predictions, and the techniques the fighters hold within their arsenals.

