Mission Statement:
Engage creativity by utilizing sandbox games to study and have fun and the same time.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies, but we will try to host a meeting at least every other Thursday throughout the year.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Experience games such as Minecraft, Terraria, and the Don’t Starve series. Everyone involved in the club will have the chance to encounter the mass number of creative opportunities that sandbox games have to offer by engaging in club activities, meetings and will be able to show off their genius creations to the other members of the club. This is also a place to hangout with people of similar interests, meet new friends, and relax after a day of work. Members can also practice teamwork skills by participating in collaborative teamwork games like multiplayer survival modes and builder contests. Moreover, members can practice STEM skills by learning about wiring and electrical systems in sandbox games and put it to use in our redstone contests. Practice researching skills through the use of game resource websites to plan out adventures and never give up even if there are failures on the way to the epic finish!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesandbox Games club will benefit the Stuyvesant community as a place for people with similar interest to hang out and speak up about their hobbies as well as a place to relax. Many Stuyvesant students see people with similar interests but are too shy to speak up to them and make friends, this club will give them the opportunity to talk to other peers and accompany each other in this high school journey. Moreover, after a long day of work many students need a place where they can calm down and relax as well as to reduce the stress upon themselves, and this club is the perfect place for that. Students can express their personalities and thoughts through the use of sandbox games and make creations that tell others more about the student. Furthermore, making creations in sandbox games can also help students in finding imaginations that they once had as a child and boost their creativity which will help a lot in their future careers. Not only that, students can feel a sense of accomplishment when completing a project within the club which can boost their confidence to attempt more activities which can provide more opportunities in the real world. Overall, Stuyvesandbox Games club benefits our community by creating a place where people with similar interests can talk to each other and assist in their academic success in the process.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The club will consist of 2 co-presidents who will lead the members in various activities, Vice President (there can be more than one) to take over when the presidents are absent, and members. The presidents will have to send out emails reminding the members about the club meetings. The presidents will also have to keep track of the member’s progress in projects and assist them in their journeys within the games as well as to keep track of the community to make sure it is a safe place for everyone to express themselves. Members can impeach the current leaders if a unanimous decision is reaches within the community. After the presidents are removed from power, new presidents will be elected in a democratic matter through voting. If the current leaders graduate, the Vice Presidents will become new presidents and if there are more than 2 president candidates 2 new presidents will be elected by voting within the community.

What makes this activity unique?:
Our club is the first sandbox game community within Stuyvesant High School and provides a different experience than all other recreational activity clubs. It creates an opportunity for students to enter a digital world of freedom where they can express themselves freely via a variety of sandbox games and find a place to relax with peers of similar interest. This club also encourages original content from students and supports imagination and creativity while still being able to provide a STEM related experience.

