Mission Statement:
The Hindu Students Council (HSC) aims to form a welcoming and open environment for those who would like to learn more about Hinduism.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet once a month on Fridays. We will have two meetings a month in the Spring.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
With biweekly meetings, students will be able to discuss and follow through with different ideas and practices pertaining to Hinduism. Each meeting, club leaders will go over a different aspect of the culture and how groups of people from distinct regions practice it. In addition to learning about this, students will be able to gain a deeper understanding of the different forms of music and dance that people can enjoy in different places of worship. Group discussions and talks by various speakers regarding identity, contributions of Hindus in fields like science and art, etc. With the help of the HSC members, this club hopes to educate and inform students about Hinduism and provide a better understanding for those who want to explore more about it. Club leaders will also arrange an opportunities document for volunteering with local groups and charities, raising money for underprivileged children, and opportunities for virtual conferences, networking opportunities, etc. for Hindu students and those who want to explore and reach beyond Stuyvesant to make a difference in their community. Group members are encouraged to foster connections with peers in addition to undergoing their own religious journey. There is no religious or devotional requirement, as we wish to be inclusive towards all students from the Stuyvesant community. To reiterate, club members will learn about important Hindu holidays, religious texts, food, cultural contributions, music, dance, and more.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The goal is to increase understanding and knowledge surrounding Hinduism through group discussions. Each meeting there will be a slideshow constructed by the club leaders going over different topics and issues concerning the Hindu community, with opportunities to discuss opinions and thoughts. This club is also willing to speak and communicate with other organizations to promote uniqueness and distinctiveness within the Stuyvesant community. Media is also one of the larger aspects of Hinduism, as it is portrayed differently in different films/natoks and so that will also be one of the different topics discussed. Different community events like volunteering in temples and places of worship will be encouraged and be led by event leaders / the co-presidents. Some festivals to be focused on include: Diwali, Holi, Navratri, Pongal, etc. All of these events aren’t as publicized, which also allows for many to not be aware of them and their historical backgrounds, despite Hinduism being one of the oldest religions. All of these opportunities will allow priority to Hindu students in order to meet others and foster discussion about students’ heritage. Not only this, but students will be able to express themselves through songs, dance, music, and art, while also learning about different pieces, all of which enhance understanding of this polytheistic religion. The presence of a Hindu Students Council at Stuyvesant would help to diversify and strengthen bonds within the community as well as incorporating the ideas of students with similar interests and backgrounds.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There are two co-presidents that will host each meeting. The co-presidents will be determined based on commitment and dedication to the club. Co-presidents will remain in their positions unless they wish to step down. There will be one outreach director/social media manager to manage the social media (along with the presidents), one treasurer to manage finances, and one project director in charge of looking for opportunities and networking. 

If members feel as though the co-leaders or any of the board are not correctly devoting effort to the club, the group members will then gather together and vote on whether or not they deserve a strike. They will only receive a strike if more than 50% of club members (including the co-presidents) believe it seems fit. If a leader accumulates three strikes, their leadership will be revoked and a new leader will be elected from a vote that'll take place during one of the meetings. Otherwise, just before the leaders graduate, they will select two underclassmen to take their position(s), and present them to the rest of the club where they will explain why they are best for that position.

What makes this activity unique?:
No other organization at Stuyvesant goes in depth about Hinduism and the culture surrounding it, as well as countries that are mostly Hindu based - such as India. Many Hindu students are underrepresented and don’t have the opportunity to learn more about their culture and the different facets surrounding it. Club leaders will provide resources to students and raise awareness for Hindu Heritage, Culture and History, empowering students to be more confident and knowledgeable. In addition to religion, this club will delve into the politics and different historical/current events that have to do with Hindu issues. Students will have the opportunity to debate about different situations in a nonjudgmental environment.

