Mission Statement:
The Poetry Hub is dedicated to preserving and expanding the world of poetry through collaboration, competition, and community service.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The Poetry Hub plans to hold one meeting per week. Each week we will alternate between learning workshops and competition prep. Community service events may occur outside our regular schedule.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Poetry Hub consists of 3 branches: peer collaboration, competition prep, and community service. Members can choose to participate in as many as they’d like. Peer collaboration is a space for all poets in varying levels of mastery to share their work, receive feedback, and learn about the different forms and styles of poetry from instructors in writing workshops. Competition prep is where members go to practice and receive feedback on competition submissions, with opportunities to get their work awarded and even published. Notable competitions include The Scholastic Art & Writing Awards and Poetry Out Loud. Community service is where members will conduct poetry activities in elementary schools and more to keep the dying art of poetry alive in the next generation. At the end of each semester, an anthology with each writer’s chosen poem, as well as an artist’s statement documenting the thought process, will be shared with the school through eligible social media.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
In the midst of a heavy STEM environment like Stuyvesant, The Poetry Hub offers a place for members to develop their humanities skills and express themselves through creative writing. In writing workshops, members will explore how to write free verse, rhymed poetry, narrative poetry, haikus, tankas, sonnets, odes, limericks, ballads, soliloquies, villanelles, pantoums, and many more styles. By reading out their poems, members will improve their public speaking skills and merge verbal speech with visual communication. Members might get out of their own comfort zone, and address the culmination of emotion in poems characterized by rhyme, repetition, improvisation, and wordplay. Through competition prep, The Poetry Hub offers Stuyvesant the chance to win awards and recognition in non-STEM areas, bringing more diversity into our school’s competitive nature. Competition prep also provides a medium for passionate writers to talk about meaningful topics that address real world issues. This also makes the idea of competition less intimidating for passionate beginners looking to raise awareness on a relevant theme. Lastly, community service brings members into the broader poetry community, connecting them with aspiring poets outside of Stuyvesant. By sharing poetry with others, we can slowly revive the craft into a more widely respected art, giving it a chance to evolve. Poetry is interesting, and through community service, we hope to spread that love with more people.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The key leadership positions in The Poetry Hub include the Co-Presidents, Web Manager, Graphic Designer, and Outreach Manager. The Co-Presidents are expected to lead club meetings, have goals and writing workshops prepared for each meeting, and work alongside members to settle any disputes. The Web Manager will be responsible for keeping all poems in a safe archive and working together with the other leaders in creating and editing the pamphlet. The Graphic Designer will create posts and flyers for the advertisement of the club. The Outreach Manager will coordinate community service projects, as well as research contests and publishing opportunities for members. New leadership positions are appointed through an application process by the previous leaders. Members who hope to become leaders must demonstrate high levels of commitment to the club in their time as a member. Applications for the following school year will become available during the Spring semester. Finally, if a leader violates the Clubs & Pubs Rules and/or abuses their leadership position, they will receive up to two warnings before they will be removed from the position. Board members are expected to maintain good academic standing (80+ average) and are expected to step down from their position when their schoolwork takes priority. Warnings and removal of a leadership position apply to all positions and will be decided based on a vote by the other current club leaders.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Poetry Hub is the only poetry club in Stuyvesant, allowing free-spirited members to embrace the mutual interest of self-expression within the literary community. Despite the fact that writing is often such a solitary act, there is no escaping the fact that poets need support to continue their art. Poetry in itself is an exceptional craft, bringing a reader to the context of real-life experiences in the community and inspiring growth in writing or personal character. The Poetry Hub is also unique in its ability to function as both a low commitment sharing circle and a high commitment competition prep class. This allows the club to be effective for each of its members, who can choose to put in whatever level of commitment they desire into the club.

