Mission Statement:
Stuy Women in Science aims to create a supportive environment for women with varying degrees of interest in pursuing a career in science.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The meeting schedule will vary each month, but we will meet at least once a month. Meetings will be held virtually on zoom or in person after school. We notify members through stuyactivities when and how we will meet beforehand!

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Women in Science aims to unite females who are interested in pursuing a career in science. Science involves a wide range of topics including biology and chemistry. Based on statistics by the American Association of University Women, only 28% of STEM workers are women. Unfortunately, many women are underrepresented in STEM fields and establishing Stuy Women in Science at Stuyvesant High School aims to seal the gender gap in STEM. The club will engage our members in presentations and meaningful discussions about different science occupations that can be pursued. During discussions, members can bring in new careers that they would like to learn more about. In this club, we explore different science careers that are currently male-dominated and through guest speaker events, we learn how women can overcome the long-standing discrimination in these fields. This club not only includes women in the STEM community, but rather sets a clear pathway for women who want to pursue careers in STEM. It empowers women to make great achievements, without any limitations. This club also emphasizes that the world must be accepting towards all groups, regardless of gender. This organization aims to close the gender gap in science-related careers, widen the career options by providing more insight into the science field, and guide the decisions students may make if they decide to major in science. There will be games, guest-speaker events, videos, and fun projects to help better understand the many career options in this vast field. Members of the club are expected to attend meetings and are encouraged to ask questions about any science career they are interested in.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy Women in Science will benefit the Stuyvesant community because it will acknowledge and increase understanding about science careers that have a significant impact on our society. Many students at Stuyvesant may be unaware of these amazing opportunities in this rapidly advancing world. Stuyvesant students will be benefiting from this club because it creates a community with a common interest. This club will also help build connections by helping students meet experts in the field through guest speaker events and encourage many young women to enter into the science field. This organization will strengthen Stuyvesant’s female students by igniting their passion, raising their voices, and building teamwork skills that will help them in their careers and beyond. In addition, students may receive extra credit from science teachers if they are interested in attending guest speaker events. Any questions about a specific topic pertaining to science are welcome! Furthermore, this club will suggest science-related opportunities within our community that many students can participate in. Many women are still underrepresented in the science field, but this club would help expand and provide more opportunities that women may choose. All in all, Stuy Women in Science hopes to set a pathway for many individuals who are still deciding on the careers in science they hope to pursue.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions are Co-President, Vice President, Marketing Director, and Outreach Director. The positions of leaders are appointed by the current leadership board members. In order to choose leadership positions, active members of the club will be given an application to fill out. Later, they will be given an opportunity to have an interview. Those unanimously elected by the leadership board will be elected for the position. The current leaders will remain in position until either of them resigns or graduates. If more than half of the members of the group believe that a leader should be impeached, the other board members will conduct the same process of finding a new leader. If it is that one Co-President that is impeached, the other Co-President can choose to elect a new Co-President. 

The Co-Presidents must ensure all other leaders are meeting their responsibilities and are responsible for setting the overarching goals of the club. They are also responsible for researching, displaying, and teaching topics during presentations. 
The Marketing Director expands the club by recruiting new members and takes the lead for all social media and online marketing opportunities to promote the Club. 
The Outreach director will reach out to guest speakers and communicate information to club members and to the general Stuyvesant community. 

As the club grows, more leadership positions will be available. Members are expected to attend meetings and actively participate in discussions. They must be respectful, supportive and follow general school rules.

What makes this activity unique?:
This organization is unique because this is the only club that discusses different careers in science for women to pursue. Each topic presented and discussed in a meeting would pertain to a specific science career. Since women may still face discrimination in science careers, this club hopes to widen women’s career options. From learning about a Physician to a Natural Sciences Manager, this club will expand knowledge about career opportunities in science, to help young women consider the countless possibilities. This club mainly focuses on encouraging women to pursue careers in Biology and Chemistry. Thinking about careers as early as high school would be a stepping stone for success in the future!

