Mission Statement:
(Formerly Stuy BotC) In this club, we play social deduction games both in person and over Discord.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We plan to meet weekly with in person meetings, as well as holding occasional virtual meetings. If the club becomes extremely successful, we may hold multiple meetings in a week.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
In this club, the members play social deduction games like Mafia, Among Us, and mostly Blood on the Clocktower. In these games, there is a minority of people who know who each other are going against a majority who votes on who they think is part of the opposing team. In some games, such as Blood on the Clocktower, it is more complex, as the person who runs the game, gives people their roles, and processes people's abilities and votes, may themselves also play a part in who wins the game. Some games we play may not have a minority evil team, such as Coup, where there are no teams and everyone has an incentive to lie and figure out who is lying. These games will be played in real life, in a real Stuyvesant classroom, or over our thriving Discord community, either by voice chat or text. It is expected that by attending a meeting, members try their best to win the game without cheating in order to make sure that everyone has fun playing the game.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will benefit the Stuyvesant community by helping them make friends with similar interests. This is important because finding friends in this time of one’s life can lead to lasting and lifelong friendships. This activity will also benefit the Stuyvesant community by improving people's social deduction skills, and by generally improving people’s ability to talk with others. Building up social confidence is very important to one’s later life, depending on what career they may pursue. It will also give Stuyvesant students a way to have fun, which is something they need to have motivation for certain stressful assignments. It also allows people with interests in this type of activity, social deduction games, to have a way to do it, as groups whom actively play this game in particular are hard to find, leading to a unique experience. Additionally, as social deduction games are games of thinking, it allows students to use the intelligence that they clearly have based on their ability to get into Stuyvesant through the Specialized High School Admissions Test to a purpose that they find enjoyable. In conclusion, the Social Deduction Club is beneficial to the Stuyvesant community because it will assist students in making friends, improving people’s ability to communicate with others, allows students with interest to pursue it, and allows students to put their intelligence to a purpose that they find enjoyable.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The organization of the meetings and the managing of the Discord server is currently to exclusively be done by people who currently have those roles. There does not appear to be a need to have more, but if no leaders are available during a week, an active community member may be appointed to handle a meeting and become a new leader. If the club gets big enough that there is a necessity for multiple games per week, then more leaders may be added in order to maintain club meetings multiple times a week. They will be chosen based on how active they are and their skill at running games. Game hosting will be done through a turn-based system where every week a different person that is interested will be the game host. Once the current leaders graduate or otherwise leave, the new leaders will be selected based on how active they are in the club, their skill at running games, and their interest in a leadership position. If, for some reason, the leadership team views a leader as unfit for the club or see community uproar over a leader, then we will let said leader know what they're doing wrong and if problems persist, we will remove them from leadership. However, it is not anticipated that this will ever happen.

What makes this activity unique?:
This organization is unique because there aren’t very many groups that regularly play these types of games. This group is the only social deduction club in Stuyvesant at this time, so students that are interested in this type of activity do not have many choices. Many people haven’t played social deduction games so joining this club will lead to students having a unique experience. We hope that everyone that decides to join this club has a fun time!

