Mission Statement:
CCTV (Closed-Circuit Television) is dedicated to producing high-quality video content for both Stuyvesant High School and CCTV's own films/productions

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
CCTV will host approximately an average 10-15 meetings every month. Though, this is a total for all meetings. On many instances, some roles may not be needed during a specific meeting while others are. Members should have a relatively open schedule so they are able to make the meetings in which they are needed. In the event a member is unable to make it to the meeting, a replacement will be found. For members that are on camera and have a role in the film itself, they must make the Cast Coordinator aware of this so the meeting can be rescheduled.

The amount of meetings in a month will be lower if there are school breaks/vacations. CCTV will not be active or host any meetings during the summer.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The goal of CCTV is to produce the highest-quality content of Stuyvesant High School and of CCTV's own films/productions. These productions will range from short-films to 20-40 minute fully-featured episodes. Not only will CCTV produce its own films written by its members, it will also offer its high-quality video production services to Stuyvesant High School itself and the clubs who request it.

The primary production of CCTV will be a "TV" series called "The Capital." Set in Stuyvesant High School, "The Capital" will be a hilariously politically-charged television series, offering viewers a behind-the-scenes look into a bustling government building where bureaucracy collides with comedy. Set in the heart of a prosperous nation's capital, the show will follow the daily antics, mishaps, and shenanigans of a diverse cast of government officials as they navigate the intricacies of public service. This all takes place in a far-flung, isolated country which is able to rapidly develop and industrialize over time periods ranging from the mid-50's all the way to the 2000's to become the best country on Earth. As the characters navigate the corridors of power, viewers will be treated to a blend of witty dialogue, clever satire, and absurd situations that will highlight both the absurdity and humanity of government work. Through its sharp social commentary and excellent use of authentic music from the various time periods, "The Capital" will offer viewers the chance to engage with contemporary issues through a lens of humor and nostalgia. Additionally, it will provide a compelling exploration of the human side of politics, showcasing the personal triumphs and pitfalls experienced by those working within the corridors of power.

Members will have an endless variety of roles to choose from to make CCTV a reality. CCTV requires that its members have relatively open schedules afterschool and are willing to dedicate time to master their craft, whether they are an actor, camera operator, writer, or cast coordinator. Members are also expected to remain professional. CCTV expects considerable efficiency as time is the only limiting factor during a recording.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
CCTV offers a platform for individuals to explore their passion for filmmaking in a supportive and collaborative environment. Through the whole process of film production, members have the opportunity to enhance their technical skills, expand their creative horizons, and develop skills that pertain to film production. Additionally, the club fosters a sense of community and camaraderie among like-minded individuals, encouraging networking, friendship, and mutual support. Furthermore, CCTV allows members to gain valuable experience in teamwork, communication, and leadership, all of which are essential skills applicable in various aspects of life beyond filmmaking. Overall, CCTV not only enriches members' lives through their shared passion for film but also equips them with valuable skills, experiences, and memories that extend far beyond the confines of the club.

After the finished production of a film, CCTV will host a premier for all of its members and cast to watch and enjoy the efforts of their work. After, the film will be posted and shared to the Stuyvesant community through Facebook and posters placed throughout the school with a QR code linking to the video. The final stage of sharing will be the publication of the film to YouTube so everyone will be able to see the hard work and dedication of Stuyvesant students. It will also provide a insight into how the school runs and feels, allowing prospective Stuyvesant students the ability to see what Stuyvesant has to offer them through the lens of current Stuyvesant students.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The main leadership of CCTV consists of the President, Vice President, Secretary, Director, Chief Financial Officer, Director of Public Relations, Cast Coordinator, Director of Photography, and an Evaluation Officer. Every three months, all members (besides the President and Vice President) of CCTV will anonymously vote to either keep the current leadership or hold an election for the roles from Secretary to Evaluation Officer listed above. If a majority (>50%) of the members wish to hold an election (or it is the start of a new school year), members will be able to vote for any member (>60 days of membership) of CCTV that they deem qualified to be elected for the role. Every member has only one vote and is allowed to vote for the current person in the position. There are no term limits. Once voting concludes, either the current official keeps their role if they won or the newly elected official will take their role. 

If the Evaluation Officer receives (anonymous) information about a member of the leadership of CCTV that is a concern or the Evaluation Officer deems someone to not be performing their duties to CCTV, the Evaluation Officer will look into the situation. If multiple people have the same issues and the person in question is uncooperative and the problem can't be resolved, members of CCTV will anonymously vote whether or not to remove the person from their position. In these instances, the President and Vice President have two votes and all other members have one vote.

Beyond the leadership positions, there are countless other jobs/positions that can be filled (such as an actor or camera operator) that prospective members can apply for. These jobs can be applied-for by anyone in Stuyvesant that has a basic understanding of the role and is willing to learn.

What makes this activity unique?:
CCTV's uniqueness comes from its ability and undying dedication to producing extremely high-quality content for both Stuyvesant High School and our CCTV'S films/productions. CCTV expects to create unique content that is both humorous and reflects on the ideas of politics and governance. Since the President of CCTV has previous experience in every aspect of film production, he can relate to every one of the cast members and understand in depth on how to improve the production value of the film. Not only does CCTV want to produce quality films, CCTV also wants to produce these films in a timely manner. CCTV expects 1-2 weeks from start to finish on a short film and 2-4 weeks on a longer 20-40 minute episode. This is to improve the relevancy of CCTV's films so that they really resonate with the viewer.

In addition to the physical uniqueness of CCTV's film, members of CCTV will have unparalleled ability to connect creatively, collaboratively, and socially with their fellow members. Members who are very new to film production are very much welcome at CCTV. The ability to learn while creating films is one of the main goals of CCTV. As members practice their film production skills, they will become better and be able to produce even higher quality content. Not only that, they will have the ability to use these skills that they learned in their own lives and endeavors, outside of CCTV.

