Mission Statement:
UCC creates a strong and supportive Ukrainian community in Stuyvesant. All are welcome!

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We hold meetings around 3 times a month, usually after school on Tuesdays or Thursdays.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of the Ukrainian Culture Club is to create a strong and supportive community for Ukrainian students at Stuy. Students can learn to speak Ukrainian and learn about the Ukrainian history and heritage. Members can share personal experiences about traditions and customs, contributing anything from cuisine to folklore. We will celebrate holidays and traditions together, including having club dinners and potlucks. Members can also combine resources and share event information in relation to fundraisers, volunteering opportunities, and anti-war protests. We will invite speakers, go on trips, and attend events outside of school together. By holding these events, trips, and meetings, we hope to help members discover a deeper connection to their identity, forge friendships with fellow students, and show support for Ukrainian local businesses, Ukrainian refugees, and for one's homeland in times of crisis. We seek to provide a safe space where Ukrainian students can unite, where students can learn about Ukrainian culture and current events, and where newfound friends can support each other and Ukrainian communities not only in Stuyvesant, but throughout NYC.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will provide students of all backgrounds with resources to learn about Ukrainian values and culture. We hope that students can connect over food, conversation, or simply have something to look forward to during their week. Whether we are supporting local businesses or fundraising aid for Ukrainian refugees, club members will always feel welcome to join. Ukrainian culture is not heavily taught in classrooms, so this club aims to diversify students’ education on current events and Ukraine’s rich history. We will hold casual discussions over Ukrainian snacks and tea to help students relax after their long day of classes. Stuy students can relate to each other over shared experiences of their family, culture, and language. By creating this community, we encourage members to learn more about themselves and their peers. Stuyvesant required courses may be more rigorous than our lessons, but we will make sure that students walk out of our meetings/events with newfound pride and knowledge. Due to our club being low commitment, members don’t have to stress over missing any lessons or meetings, as we encourage all students to join! Special meetings will be held for major Ukrainian celebrations including Rizdvo, Easter, Victory Day, and Ukrainian Independence Day. Overall, the primary focus of this club will be to provide education and fun!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Being a relatively new club, we currently have two co-presidents and a faculty advisor. Club members are encouraged to attend meetings as often as convenient, and to check the socials rather frequently to keep up with club plans. Otherwise, members of this club will have a lot of power in terms of suggesting activities, contributing to discussions, and evaluating and voting for leaders. Leaders will be elected according to involvement and contribution to the club. Senior leaders will hold the position until they graduate, at which point they are succeeded by the vice presidents (the only exception to this pattern is if a leader steps down or is impeached). A leader may be impeached if members of the club find them ill-fit for running the club such as being disorganized, disrespectful, and not communicating well with members of the club. If a member brings forth a vote to impeach a leader (with valid reason), the majority rules. The duties of the senior leaders include organizing club events, communicating with members and faculty, collaborating with community leaders outside of Stuy, and hosting meetings 3 times a month. As the leading positions become more specialized as new supporting leaders are elected, responsibilities may change.

What makes this activity unique?:
Our club will not only be a place of education, but also of activism and community intended to support the local Ukrainian community. Expanding beyond the Stuyvesant building, club members will be able to explore Ukrainian heritage regardless of their backgrounds. Club members can share resources for volunteering, fundraising and contributing to aid organizations for the current crisis. As our club grows so will our members knowledge of Ukrainian identity and traditions. Despite sharing culture and folklore, authentically celebrating little-known Ukrainian holidays, and taking trips to centers of culture, students in this club will encounter new friends and a community that can always educate, inspire, and empower.

