Mission Statement:
PWA intends to serve as a talking space for all things related to the worldwide sport that is professional wrestling.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The PWA plans to meet at least twice every month, with weekly meetings on months without any major standardized testing.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The PWA is a low-commitment club that is for those who enjoy the world of professional wrestling. Whether it be the world's largest company in WWE, a smaller but more critically-praised organization in NJPW, or even a niche indie like PWG, PWA is a platform for the consumption and interaction of all sorts of wrestling media. All that is required of the members of the club is an interest in professional wrestling. There will be weekly lessons on the history, with topics such as the creation and rise to global powerhouse of a company like WWE, how professional wrestling connects to other, non-predetermined sports such as football and basketball, and how professional wrestling make contributions past the sports world. In addition, PWA will have interactive segments such as trivia and predictions of may happen with an ongoing storyline, so the club isn't just a history class since Stuyvesant already has enough of those. In its simplest terms, professional wrestling is a form of athletic theater, and PWA will be an art appreciation club that indulges in and celebrates the continued existence of this amalgamation of sports and theater.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The PWA is for those who seek people with a fellow love of professional wrestling to both further enrich their knowledge in the past, present, and future of the art, as well as act as a social space for discussion of what they love about the sport. Despite the immense popularity of professional wrestling, it can sometimes be difficult to find people who enjoy wrestling, especially as a high schooler where WWE is seen as content for kids. While it is true that the major companies have adopted a more family and advertiser friendly business model, professional wrestling is made for people of all ages and as such the PWA intends to remove that bias from the public mind of Stuyvesant. This club will have material that will not only serve as an entry point for people possibly interested in professional wrestling but will allow for invested fans to further elaborate on statements and provide their own two cents. Relationships are often built upon the common interest of the parties involved, so the PWA will serve as the medium for the people of Stuyvesant to create new relationships just based on their joint love of wrestling. Anybody, regardless of their knowledge of professional wrestling will be free to sit in on a meeting and participate in the weekly discussions, hopefully building interest not just in professional wrestling, but also in the company of their peers. Simply stated, PWA aims to build community not just for the enjoyers of professional wrestling, but in the greater Stuyvesant community.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
In the initial stages of the club, we will have a president and vice-president. While the number of leadership positions is subject to change, all members will be responsible for the creation of weekly slideshows as well as leading group discussions of future and previous events within the world of professional wrestling. At the end of the year, when leadership positions in the club become available, whether it be due to club growth or the graduation/resignation of existing members, we will post leadership applications via a google form. Decisions will be made on a basis of attendance and participation, in addition to input from fellow club participants via a survey that will be filled out by club members during the application process. If a leader is excessively absent without reason or deemed to be poorly contributing to club material (slideshows, discussions, etc.), then a vote will be held amongst club members to remove said member from leadership and appoint a replacement.

What makes this activity unique?:
The PWA, while a typical art appreciation club, specializes in a subgenre of theater which Stuyvesant has no other outlets for. We promote conversation and creativity with our prediction-based meetings. We plan to work with other clubs to show that the production of professional wrestling is a collaborative process, as well as detail the contributions of certain groups within professional wrestling. The PWA will create a new hub for community growth in Stuyvesant through the previously unexplored avenue that is professional wrestling.

