Mission Statement:
Stuy Soccer hopes to provide a home to all of the soccer fans in Stuyvesant.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies, but we will meet every Friday starting from the end of the PSAL Soccer season, which will end in the fall. There will be ocasional meetings in the fall, though less frequent.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Soccer is one of the most popular sports in Stuyvesant. Stuy soccer is the place for all fans to come together and create a strong community around “the beautiful game.” This club will host meetings several times a month. Meetings will involve group activities such as watching a game together, talking about recent developments, and playing pick-up soccer at a park. We do try to respect covid safety protocols so if there is a sharp outbreak of covid cases, we try to push off meetings until it is safer to hold a gathering. Most meetings will be on Friday, but that is subject to change depending on the availability of club members. Club members do not have to show up for all meetings/playing soccer, but they should be there most of the time. There is no pressure on people to have to show up, and we understand if people have other commitments.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant lacks a home for soccer fans. Even though it is one of the most popular sports in the school, the only place where people passionate about soccer get to meet up are the school soccer teams. Unfortunately, Stuy does not have a junior varsity program and that limits many Stuyvesant soccer enthusiasts from having a place where they can make new friends based on their passion for the sport. Given that joining the soccer team is a major commitment that not everyone can afford, Stuy Soccer hopes to create a more inclusive, laid-back environment for everyone. Moreover, Stuy Soccer hopes to have meetings where players on the soccer team can train in the offseason in order make sure that their skills stay sharp all year round. Students aspiring to join the team in the future can also use the club as a place to get better. The students who want to play up to the level of those on the team can learn skills and be helped by those on the team. This year, many kids who tried out for the team played with us (Stuy Soccer) on Fridays and improved their skills. This led to many of the people who tried out for the team to get on.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
President – The president is the public face of the club. They are the head of marketing and they are the head of recruitment. Strong communication skills are needed for this position. Good time management is also required because this position is a major commitment. Soccer ability may be a role that helps bolster one’s case to become president, but it will not be required.
I (Duncan Park) will be president, along with vice presidents that will be selected with me with advice from the outgoing president. I already have the outgoing president's approval to recharter the club and to take charge. Once I leave, I will give the presidency to a member who I see fit, along with other outgoing members' opinions. There may be a need for a funding director or marketing director, and I will appoint one if I see fit. The vice presidents will help run meetings when I cannot make it,  and I will work closely with them in order to have the same understanding of what our club will look like.

What makes this activity unique?:
We're the only soccer club at Stuyvesant. There's the soccer team, but those on the team have to have a high level of skill, not one that everyone possesses. We're trying to open up soccer to the rest of the school and have a place where people can play for fun. This is a way of having an organized time and space to play without requiring people to join the soccer team. There are limited spots on the soccer team, so this is a good way of having easy access to soccer.

