Mission Statement:
StuyCanto aims to bring students together to explore Cantonese culture and language.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will hopefully meet at least once a month, but the schedule may change based on the time of year.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyCanto aims to bring Cantonese students at Stuyvesant together, teach non-Cantonese students about Cantonese language and culture, and ensure that all members are having a great time! Anyone is welcome at our club as long as they are willing to learn and appreciate the culture. We are a low commitment club that aims to meet about once a month, but we are open to holding more meetings throughout the month. Our meetings will include opportunities to converse in and learn Cantonese and try yummy snacks and foods. They are meant to be fun and are also completely optional. We will also try to go on a field trip to Chinatown and hold a Lunar New Year meeting/event in school later in the year. Overall, we hope this club can provide an environment that brings students together to learn about a culture and language that many at Stuyvesant are a part of.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This club will bring together Cantonese students and non-Cantonese students from across Stuyvesant. We will learn more about the Cantonese language and culture together as a club. This will be done by interacting with Cantonese language media, engaging in basic Cantonese conversations, and eating delicious Cantonese foods and snacks. In addition to being a place to learn about Cantonese culture, this club will also be a place to have lots of fun and to make new friends. School can often times be very stressful, so we hope to be an outlet where students can release stress and enjoy themselves with their peers. We also hope to partner with volunteering organizations in Asian American communities. This will provide members with the chance to give back to the community and make an impact on others. Additionally, we will go on field trips to Asian American communities across the city. We will definitely walk over to Chinatown during one of those trips to explore the cultural significance of the neighborhood. We will also make sure to grab a lot of food during that trip. Finally, we are aiming to hold a Lunar New Year event/meeting sometime during the winter of next year to celebrate Lunar New Year.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The club will have a few leadership positions. The President of the club will be in charge of chartering the club and running most operation. The Vice President of the club will assist the President in running the operations of the club. Additionally, manager and secretary positions will be administered through applications. Managers and secretaries will help the President and Vice President plan meetings and events throughout the year. Members of the club are expected to remain respectful to their peers at all times throughout meeting. We expect our members to be considerate of the feelings of others as well. When the President graduates, the Vice President will take over that role. Afterwards, the Vice President position will be up for application. Should both the President and Vice President graduate, applications will be administered the year of graduation. Manager and secretary applications will be released yearly. If necessary, leaders will be removed after careful discussion with the rest of the board.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyCanto is unique as it aims to help students explore a culture and language at Stuyvesant. We will hold meetings to discuss the culture and language of Cantonese people. We will also hold discussions about modern day culture and events surrounding Cantonese-speaking areas. Additionally, we hope to go on trips after school to visit restaurants, parks, and other places relating to the culture. The club also hopes to work with volunteering organizations to help make a difference in the Asian American community.

