Mission Statement:
The Youth Engineering Studio (YES) strives to immerse younger students in the world of engineering through hands-on learning opportunities.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
During the school year, studio sessions with younger students will likely occur once every other week on Sundays, unless members are available to plan and schedule more. During the summer, studio sessions can become more frequent if enough members from the schools are able to organize and attend them. Stuyvesant’s Youth Engineering Studio members will meet weekly on Mondays or Thursdays (or whenever most members are available) throughout the school year to brainstorm content and prepare for each session of the cycle. Other schools are free to schedule their own meetings accordingly.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Many children lack access to engineering learning opportunities early on. The Youth Engineering Studio serves as a student-led workshop for younger students all over New York City to explore engineering in a space that fosters curiosity and innovation. YES introduces engineering concepts to students using low-tech approaches to emphasize the accessibility of engineering and bridge the gap between low-income students and STEM opportunities. Through these concepts, YES hopes to teach students basic engineering, help them build their problem-solving skills, train them to work collaboratively, and above all, inspire them to be creative in whatever they do. YES strives to expand the scope of learning and increase learner engagement by framing lessons around hands-on activities and experiments. Mentees are given the opportunity to experiment with what is in front of them before they are taught, which activates creative thinking. YES mentors are encouraged to teach engineering concepts that they are interested in, which can be brainstormed during logistics meetings, and mentoring teams will work together to research topics and create their own lesson plans. Although YES mentors do not have to be experienced in engineering, they should be eager to develop their own engineering skills in order to teach and lead a group of younger students during the studio sessions. YES is not only a great opportunity for younger students to learn, but for high school students as well.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Youth Engineering Studio welcomes members and volunteers from various high schools across New York City, working together toward the common goal of helping kids explore the world of engineering. Stuyvesant members will contribute to a larger organization whose mission is to provide a fun and safe space—a studio—for younger students to experiment with building bridges, towers, circuits, Rube Goldberg machines, and many other structures. By being part of a team, YES members will gain valuable skills such as communication, management, organization, creativity, dedication, leadership, and patience, among others. YES also aims to encourage its high school members to be passionate and driven, while giving back to the community. Members will have the opportunity to further their own interest in engineering, or even in business. YES mentors will get a glimpse into what it takes to be a teacher, from building their own lessons and planning accompanying activities to being on the forefront of shaping the education of the younger generation. YES management teams will learn first-hand what it takes to run an organization, from social media marketing to organizing fundraisers. Members will get to directly experience the benefits of their hard work through the organization’s impact on enthusiastic, young learners.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Youth Engineering Studio will operate with an executive board composed of a President, a Vice President (or two Co-Presidents), a Secretary, and a Treasurer. Additional leadership positions include Mentoring Directors, Outreach Directors, a Fundraising Director, and a Marketing Director. Members who are interested in applying to serve on the executive board must have some prerequisite experience as a Director for YES. They are then welcome to apply for a board position through a series of short answer questions and an interview conducted by the executive board. Applications will be sent out before the end of the school year for the summer cycle, when current leaders will work with newly selected leaders to prepare them for the upcoming school cycle. The selected leaders will assume full responsibility of their respective roles by the start of the school year. Any leader who fails to deliver on their responsibilities and/or violates proper conduct can be removed from their position by a majority vote of the other leaders.

What makes this activity unique?:
There are few initiatives that encourage and offer the opportunity for young students to dive head-first into the field of engineering. The Youth Engineering Studio hopes to function exactly as its name suggests—as an accessible and welcoming studio for kids to explore the endless possibilities of innovation. YES will use nonconventional teaching methods like “learning by doing” to provide new and engaging learning experiences that differ from what students are used to in their school classrooms. YES is also a great startup opportunity for high school students to be part of something monumental and impactful.

