Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant A Cappella bands together the talented singers of Stuyvesant's student body, using only voices to create, arrange, and perform music.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We typically meet 2-3 times a week, although we decide on days together as a group to ensure everyone can attend at least once a week. We take a quick break during SING! season in order to encourage our members to participate in SING!, then resume meetings once again after SING! season is over.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
"Stuyvesant A Cappella is a close-knit group that bands together Stuyvesant's talented voices to create, arrange, and perform music without any instrumental accompaniment! In the first half of the year, we'll choose and sing a handful of holiday songs to help get Stuyvesant in the holiday spirit, involving caroling and performing at the Chorus Winter Concert! Afterward, we take a short break for SING! season, then come together once more to prepare for our Spring Showcase. For the showcase, we've done a wide variety of songs, from ""Rather Be"" to ""My Girl"", and even ""Gary Come Home"" from SpongeBob! We hold auditions during the fall and spring seasons, and absolutely no experience is necessary! As a member, it's expected that you show up at least once a week to learn the music, practice the songs in your free time, and reach out to club leaders whenever problems arise. We encourage any passionate singers or beatboxers to consider being a part of our A Cappella family!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
"Stuyvesant A Cappella hopes to foster a safe and welcoming community for any passionate singers and beatboxers in the Stuyvesant community! Through our practice and helping each other learn music, we become a close-knit family that encourages each other to grow as not only musicians, but also as collaborators. Because A Cappella relies solely on our voices, it is pertinent that we hold ourselves and each other accountable for learning and practicing the songs in order to ensure that we can create and perform our music with maximum effort! Because of the size of our group, each voice holds a lot of weight while we're singing, and it is crucial that each person is singing to the best of their ability, which builds self-confidence. Through our music, we strive to bring the Stuyvesant community together and hopefully bring joy to everyone. We also hope to show the Stuyvesant community just how beautiful music can be when it comes from just our voices alone! A Cappella is something that most people have only heard about from Pitch Perfect or Pentatonix but never think that its something they'll ever be able to do, but we hope to encourage the Stuyvesant community to give it a try!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
"For Stuy A Cappella, there are 3 distinct positions: President, Vice President, and Music Director. The president is in charge of reaching out to the administration about events (i.e. caroling, spring showcase), leading and giving feedback during meetings, leading the audition process, and works to make sure that everyone in the club is keeping up with the music and is having fun while doing so! There are typically 1-2 presidents, with seniority in play for this position. The vice president is in charge of working alongside the president to assist whenever necessary in order to ensure meetings run as smoothly as possible. There are normally 1-2 vice presidents. The position typically goes to juniors (so they can learn the duties of being president for their senior year) as well as seniors, but it is also open to any enthusiastic and passionate underclassmen as well. The music director is in charge of arranging music for the group to sing, as well as help lead and conduct while we sing, then give feedback to help us improve. There are normally 1-2 music directors. This position goes to anyone who has a passion and interest in arranging music, no matter their grade! At the end of every year, a leadership application is sent out to all of the members, and anyone who is interested in pursuing a leadership position is encouraged to apply! Then, the people who currently hold leadership positions in the club read over each person's application, then discuss together and decide who will take on leadership roles for the next school year. Presidents, vice presidents, and music directors will be impeached if they are caught breaking club rules (i.e., using nepotism to ensure that underqualified people get into the club, or they don't show up to the majority of meetings.) Then, a vote will be held involving all club members, and if at least two-thirds of the club agrees that the leader is breaking rules, he or she will be voted out.

What makes this activity unique?:
"Stuyvesant A Cappella is currently the only A Cappella group at Stuyvesant! Although Stuyvesant already has numerous choruses, bands, and orchestras, as well as our own theater community, we are the only club that does not rely on an instrument in order to make music. Rather, we are a small, close-knit group that creates music with simply our voices alone and pride ourselves on the beautiful music that we're able to make and perform without using instruments!

