Mission Statement:
StuyCast brings together various behind-the-scene talents, collaborates with other clubs, and provides leadership opportunities throughout the year!

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
StuyCast will typically have 2 club-wide meetings in a month, however individual team meetings will happen from time to time on a smaller scale.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyCast strives to create a brand new kind of community that brings students from all specialized fields together to work on a single project. It will create a work process that will benefit students by familiarizing them with how workplaces function in the real world: working as a team. Together, all of its members will be working to produce tri-weekly films that represent different clubs throughout Stuy, the high school experience, and life as an NYC student in general. The StuyCast team will follow a script turned into a filming and editing process, and will release a final, published production at the end of the 3 week schedule. The Executive Board has created an organized schedule where it’s in a tri-weekly format and each department of the club will serve its own role. This way, the workflow of the club will be smooth, the department members won’t feel the strain of work, and everyone in the club will have additional time to make more connections with those both in and outside StuyCast.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyCast will be beneficial to the Stuy community because it will provide a place for people to really find the potential within their talents and create something out of that along with other students. It will also provide a means of connection with many students within our grade because the StuyCast team will create stories/edits that are relatable/engaging to many Stuy students. It will also be keeping up with short news videos and informing our general audience in various ways and a short amount of time. In turn, this will also allow many other students to be keenly aware of the club's existence and hopefully help them find something that suits their interests/hobbies. Many potential members with an interest towards the club will be able to find a department that suits them best, and it will really help them hone in their skills within that specific area. As time goes on, they’ll become adept within that field and will even be able to assume leadership positions and teach new, incoming members of their own in the future. This is a club that will create a new type of environment within our school, and it will be one that has many amazing moments and many shared experiences. We’ll go through the school year together as one; as StuyCast!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
StuyCast will maintain a leadership system free of any sort of nepotism or biased. The leadership team is divided into two parts: The Executive Board & the Directorial Board. The Executive Board consists of the Founders of StuyCast (if they haven't graduated already), Co-Presidents, Vice Presidents, Secretary, and any "in-training" executive members. The Directorial Board will consist of all the Executives and the Directors/Heads of each department as well as "Deputy" directors. We want to ensure a diverse community within StuyCast, so a minimum quota of 10% freshman, 20% sophomores, 20% juniors, and 25% seniors within the Directorial Board must be met! One position exists outside of the entire board: the Logistics Directors, who keeps constant track of member contribution and attendance within the club and regularly updates a sheet which will be used to determine how the board appoints its next leaders.

Appointing Leaders: 
StuyCast sends out new applications for leadership around every 2 marking periods! Appointing new Executives will be based on merit from the Logistics Directors' sheet, a written application, and a short interview (only if needed). The role of Co-President is restricted to rising seniors and juniors only. The role of Vice President is restricted to rising juniors and sophomores only. The role of Secretary is restricted to rising sophomores and freshman, but can be offered to any grade if needed. After the Executives are finalized, the Directors will be chosen based solely on merit and a written application or interview (up to the applicant to suit their strengths).

Impeaching Leaders:
If it is a President (or Vice President) in question of impeachment, then, we will do a club-wide vote denouncement. If a 35% vote majority is reached, then, the President shall be impeached. The threshold for impeachment is so low because we want our club to be led at optimal effort by its leaders, especially the President. As for other roles, there is no need for an impeachment process, as the leadership cycling based on a merit system will be enough to remove less contributing members of the board. To make the merit system fair to non-board members of Stuycast, regular members will earn double the points that Directors earn for the same contributions!

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyCast prioritizes group work and producing an environment where students specialized in different areas are able to collaborate to publish a shared production. Rather than focusing on a specific skill to work upon,we will be a club focusing on multiple at once. StuyCast not only benefits the club members themselves, but also provides students outside the club an opportunity to learn about other clubs and it also helps share the experience of what our club does and gives the student body at Stuy something to look forward to every two to three weeks!

