Mission Statement:
The Clubs and Pubs Leaders’ Union of Business is a union of club leaders to advocate for the interests of club leaders at Stuyvesant.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings may happen, but these will likely be uncommon, as organization and lobbying efforts will primarily occur through communication platforms such as Discord.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Clubs and Pubs Leaders’ Union of Business will promote the cooperation of various other club leaders to improve the Clubs and Pubs experience at Stuyvesant. All member clubs are expected to be cooperative and ensure the unity of the union in the best interest of the various assortment of Clubs and Pubs at Stuyvesant.

The union will also work to assist its member clubs with any issues or challenges they may face and provide a community of resources and support for its member clubs.

The union will advocate for beneficial policies for its members and the various assortment of Clubs and Pubs at Stuyvesant, and lobby those with jurisdiction over Clubs and Pubs, such as the Clubs and Pubs Department, the Student Union, the Stuyvesant administration, and state and local educational departments, to implement such policies as they deem necessary.

The union may endorse tickets for Student Union and student caucuses taken by a vote of its members that it believes will promote the best interests of the members of the club union. Candidates would be interviewed by the leaders of the union, and the details of the interviews will be provided to the members of the union for their review, from which endorsements can be made.

The union will make use of various platforms and mediums to conduct its business.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The union will provide an opportunity for its members to organize as a collective organization to advocate for their interests, encourage the implementation of policies that benefit the various clubs and pubs at Stuyvesant, and discourage the implementation of policies that harm those organizations. Club leaders have historically lacked any sort of broader organization to advocate for their interests, and are subject to the total discretion of authority figures. There are many times where unpopular policies with significant backlash have been implemented without the input of club leaders, and this union will provide an opportunity for this input to be delivered in a more formal manner. All clubs in general will note an improvement in experience with an organization to lobby for their interests, even if they do not choose to join the union, but the benefit of membership provides an opportunity for clubs to influence the direction of the union in a way that aligns with the interests of the collective of clubs. The unity of clubs will also be strengthened under the organization of a formal union to advocate for shared interests, improving cooperation and ensuring clarity in the desires of the various assortment of clubs and pubs at Stuyvesant.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leaders will be elected by the members of the union and will take the title of President, which will generally occur on an annual basis. The President(s) will represent the interests of the union at various functions, initiatives, and programs. The President(s) will possess the executive authority of the union to make decisions with respect to the club.

The leaders of the union may fill various other administrative positions to assist their management of the union, which may include positions such as Secretaries, Envoys, Managers, and other such positions as they deem necessary.

Officers may be removed from office for similar failures of breaches by impeachment and conviction. Upon motion, an impeachment hearing may be held where charges are discussed and voted upon. If the officers are impeached, they will be subject to an impeachment trial at a meeting where they will be tried. Two-thirds of the members may vote to convict the officer. Penalties include removal of the officer or disqualification of the officer from further office.

A club may be expelled from the union by a three-fourths vote of its members if it is in the interest of safety or decency.

What makes this activity unique?:
A formal collective organization of clubs and publications has never been attempted at Stuyvesant, and likely many other educational institutions. It is a completely novel idea but it is something that will provide innumerable benefits for its members and the Stuyvesant community. Permitting clubs and publications to formally organize will improve the Clubs and Pubs experience in a clearly tangible way, and encourage authority figures to seek the input of the union when making policies with regard to Clubs and Pubs.

