Mission Statement:
Exploring different fields of science, competing and bonding with others, and training the next winners of the National Science Bowl!

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will be on Tuesday and Thursday. This is to give more members an opportunity to attend a meeting by offering a variety of meeting dates. It is not necessary to attend any meetings, but it is recommended for members to attend as much as they can since it will improve the club experience.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Science Bowl aims to provide an opportunity for students to represent Stuyvesant High School in the high school division of the National Science Bowl (NSB) competition. The NSB is a competition that rigorously tests students' skills in science and mathematics. Although a select number of our members will go on to participate in the annual NYC regional competition and possibly the national competition, which will be fairly decided through attendance, performance, and sportsmanship, all members will have the opportunity to broaden their scientific interests, interact with a community of students that share their interests, and participate in invitational competitions and scrimmages. Often, our members discover their academic passions and bond with others with similar interests through their involvement with the Stuyvesant Science Bowl community. The main purpose of Stuyvesant Science Bowl is to provide our members with an environment in which they can explore and develop their passions for science and mathematics.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Students can stand to gain experience working with others through practices and competitions, due to the emphasis on teamwork and quick communication of the Science Bowl competition format (for more information, refer to the additional information section), and join a friendly community of other students that share an interest in STEM. Similar to other clubs, underclassmen can also find a community of upperclassmen that are willing to provide help and advice. They can also gain an understanding of multiple fields of sciences, which can help them find their interests in science and math, gain knowledge that may be useful in science and math classes offered at Stuy, and also possibly find connections between fields in STEM, which can be useful for deciding what to study, both in Stuy (electives, APs, etc.) and beyond. Members may also improve other various skills, such as reaction time, quick thinking, etc. through repeated participation in practice rounds due to the fast-paced nature of the competition. Through the New York Regional Science Bowl competition, National Science Bowl competition, and invitational competitions (hosted by other Science Bowl teams), members can also experience a competitive environment and form valuable friendships or friendly rivalries with students from other schools.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The president(s) and vice-president(s) are chosen by the club's previous president(s) and other leadership positions just before leaving the club. If a significant majority of the club decides that any of the students in a leadership position are unfit for their designated jobs, after approval from our faculty advisor, we will hold new elections for the position in question. The impeached leader is, however, still allowed to run in this election. If a significant majority of the club is dissatisfied with a designated leader (namely the captain of a team), after the approval of both the president and faculty advisor a new captain will be chosen. It is the responsibility of the vice president and president to choose a new captain. Their choice has to be approved by the faculty advisor. Science Bowl will be a fairly informal club; members can do what they like as long as they don't hinder the practice or experience of other members during meetings. However, dedication and competence will be determining factors in the selection of the regional competition.

What makes this activity unique?:
Science Bowl is unique in that it requires both extensive academic knowledge and strong cooperation skills. The competition format provides an opportunity for students to improve their skills in their various scientific disciplines in a less formal and much more entertaining way than other similar competitive clubs. Science Bowl isn’t simply regurgitating facts from various textbooks and taking traditional exams like in school. While Science Bowl rewards and encourages learning, the format of competition requires that members must cooperate and be open to teamwork in order for the team to succeed. It is impossible for one person to know every discipline and compete by himself. Different members specialize in the areas they are most comfortable in, and when it is time for competition, everyone is working together to answer as many questions.

