Mission Statement:
Stuy Geography intends to unite a body of students who are interested in geography and have map-related interests, like Geoguessr.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Thursday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will be around once every 2 weeks, sometimes having once a week and other times having every 3 weeks for a meeting, depending on our members' availabilities. We will likely hold meetings toward the end of the week, prioritizing Thursday and maybe Friday.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Geography is a club intended for all ranges of geography and map enthusiasts, and is meant to be a calm and welcoming, but active environment for everyone to exhibit their geography-related hobbies. We intend on having info sessions, map designing, trivia, borders & history, and even competitions (especially Geoguessr and Sporcle!). Members are encouraged to participate as well as relax and enjoy their time among other geography enthusiasts, and are free to explore and talk to others. We want a calm but educational and encouraging environment for many with this commonly shared interest without a proper outlet. We will serve as an open place for all things related to geography and more than that, stretching to history and even further, and we are very interested in molding the club around the students, rather than to a specific topic itself. Stuy Geography will be primarily run based off student desires, allowing for a free and open area where ideas are explored and encouraged.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Overall, Stuy Geography provides a very strong and needed outlet for the large body of students that have some interest in maps and geography. Geography is a topic that is not as singular as it seems, as it often appears in many aspects of history, art, and culture, and can be a great point of interest for the existing geography-keen Stuy community. Along with the variety of topics, Stuy Geography also brings a very open environment that is accepting of all students, and even without much knowledge of related topics, we intend to allow the member body of our club to have a say, as to include all students and bring the community closer as a whole. Stuy Geography wishes to give students a platform where they can discover a new hobby or two, and feel comfortable exploring it with other people through other students and our resources. We are keen on impacting the student body, and, seeing a significant rise in such a major hobby, we were surprised that there wasn't a better outlet for them, and seek to captivate their hobbies by expanding upon them in a beneficial way as well as enjoying the material itself, providing a much needed service that many students would greatly benefit from.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
We will appoint leaders based on interest and consistent leadership within and outside of the club, and will prioritize members who show a strong interest and leadership over members who may be more knowledgeable (in Geography-related topics). We will look for the most optimistic and insightful people to be leaders, and also value strong communication and presence within the club. Although it may be hard to attend meetings some days, we will look for members who attend often, given that we will have meetings at times weeks apart. Leaders will also be appointed on how well they get the spirit of the club: an open space of exploration that is both active and de-stressing. Members who help relief the much felt pressure of Stuyvesant will be seen as potential candidates as well. Between school years, we will transfer leadership based on the current amount of leaders and an application/selection process in the Late Spring. Leaders who need to be removed for any reason will be informed well in advance and encouraged to continue on the path they made when they were elected as leaders, until which they will have until next leader selections to make a decision.

What makes this activity unique?:
Among Stuyvesant there exist many clubs that have some indirect relation to Geography (ex. History), but none of these seem to appeal to the somewhat already large population of students who have an existing interest in Geography, which, given its particularly large expanse in topics, seems to be almost in its entirety omitted from the Stuy Clubs atmosphere. Geography, being a very important part of human lives and their studies, has a justified singularity to it that can be condensed into one club, as it cannot fit in its entirety into any overlapping club.

