Mission Statement:
StuyLaw provides an enriching experience for all to delve into the legal world and builds bridges between students and legal professionals.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
StuyLaw hosts general meetings, with activities ranging from legal discussions to legal presentations to other legal activities, two times a month. A StuyLaw executive surveys members on the meeting date the week before a designated meeting, in which the most popular day is chosen. StuyLaw will have one legal guest speaker per month and additionally provide multiple virtual live court days for the members’ discretion. Virtual court schedules will be posted at the beginning of each month when available. These activities and their frequencies are subject to change.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyLaw is Stuyvesant High School's prelaw society! StuyLaw’s purpose is to provide abundant opportunities to explore the legal world. This club was founded to provide links to the next steps after high school in law, government, and politics. StuyLaw fosters connections with courts, law firms, and other legal establishments to allow ambitious, aspiring attorneys to get integrated with people already in the work field. Through mock trials, proceedings, presentations, Q&As, and other opportunities, those who yearned to have a designated club for law will have a chance to finally meet those aspirations. StuyLaw establishes an active, professional environment for all aspiring members through a set club structure, active meetings and legal opportunities to once and for all give law a place in the Stuyvesant community. Despite the restrictive nature of certain upperclassmen-exclusive electives relating to law, this club openly welcomes all Stuyvesant students thus providing underclassmen and upperclassmen alike a head start in the legal world. Active members are expected at the very least to attend meetings twice a month, but there are constant opportunities provided in the legal world.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The club works to benefit the Stuyvesant community by presenting students with career options outside of the STEM ones focused on by the school. StuyLaw offers the opportunity for all students to explore the field of law at whatever depth they choose. Stuyvesant’s current system limits the opportunity to learn about the legal system, in which it is only given to the fortunate upperclassmen in the law classes. However, StuyLaw changes this for the students – as it provides a welcome outlet for students to pursue their interests in law, or even simply explore legal professions that slightly interest them. StuyLaw also benefits the Stuyvesant community by introducing the students to professionals outside of the teaching field. Stuyvesant students will be given a chance to interact with adults of different careers, learning from them and getting inspiration in varying ways. Beyond interaction with legal professionals, members will also be given the chance to learn about law through their peers. StuyLaw hosts legal presentations which include information about the New York State Court System, the structure of the criminal justice system, and other activities club members are interested in. StuyLaw also hosts legal discussions, so students will be able to gain experience in public speaking and socializing.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
StuyLaw’s executive board is in charge of appointments. Currently, the executive board consists of two main people: the president and the vice president. They are appointed by the previous executive board. They are responsible for organizing meetings, reaching out to legal speakers for legal opportunities, managing social media platforms, and communicating with the SU/school. There are also the directors of outreach and internal affairs, who are responsible for managing responsibilities as needed. These directors are chosen via application and/or recommendation from the executive board. In the past, the directors of outreach have formed close relationships with legal professionals, law schools, and law firms. The directors of internal have planned meetings, created legal trivia nights, and promoted the club. Leaders who are not fulfilling their responsibilities must communicate openly with other the students in leadership positions and explain their behaviors. Failure to properly communicate may result in termination and the selection of new leaders.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyLaw is unique because of the opportunity it provides to meet legal professionals and learn about law. The only law classes at Stuy are electives, all of which are incredibly oversubscribed, and StuyLaw plans to make it easier for the rest of the school to learn about the legal professions in New York and beyond. StuyLaw has opportunities in meetings on a regular basis throughout the school year (twice a month), as well as weekly opportunities to get involved in the legal world through partnerships with the courts, law firms, and other organizations with StuyLaw’s connections. Members are directly involved with StuyLaw functions through deciding meeting dates, weighing in on content of activities, engaging in activities, and giving opinions on what type of guest speakers are hosted.

