Mission Statement:
The SEC works to promote positive environmental action in the Stuy community through recycling, gardening, upcycling, educational events, and more!

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We have 1-2 mandatory clubwide meetings every semester (including the Earth Day Fair). Outside of those meetings, members will be required to participate in some club meetings for at least 4 hours every marking period. Our club requirements can be found here:https://stuyenviro.weebly.com/club-requirements.html. 

Meetings are held weekly by the Gardening, Green Team, and Research branches. Gardening meetings allow members to maintain potted plants and a hydroponics wall in school. Green Team meetings allow members to do arts and crafts via upcycling projects. Research meetings allow members to practice informative article writing, as well as to do research of their own. All meetings are open to all members - feel free to go to whichever meetings most interest you!

Outside of regularly scheduled meetings, we also host events regularly. Some are virtual webinars over Zoom; some are in-person speaker events; some are in-person volunteering events. Check in regularly for event times!

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Environmental Club (SEC) endeavors to educate the community about important environmental issues while also making environmental impacts throughout the school and NYC. 

SEC members promote sustainability through art upcycling projects and environmental research. Gardening is a major focus of our club: students maintain potted herbs and a hydroponics wall in our school classrooms, and volunteer in public city gardens at the Battery Urban Farm. We also help students recycle at Stuyvesant through cafeteria duty and hallway recycling station grading. Through the Environmental Club, members get opportunities to volunteer with monitoring oysters with the Billion Oyster Project, as well as park cleanups on the weekends.

We also host an annual Earth Day Fair, a major school-wide outreach event where students learn about specific environmental topics with food, games, arts and crafts, and much fun! 

We hope you consider joining our club! The Stuyvesant Environmental Club is a great way to make friends, explore a variety of interests and passions, and take action and raise awareness for issues you care about.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant Environmental Club aims to raise awareness, promote education, and encourage action relating to environmental issues within the Stuyvesant community. We work on countless initiatives with the goal of making Stuy greener, including but not limited to: 

- maintaining potted plants around the school;
- sharing weekly Eco-Facts with the student body, faculty, and parents; 
- helping students sort their trash in the cafeteria through our lunch duty program; 
- maintaining our grading system for hallway recycling stations;
- working with faculty, clubs, and the student body to collect and use materials like scrap fabric, bottle caps, and soda cans to create upcycled art for the school; 
- hosting the annual Earth Day Fair, a major event open to the whole school, where students learn about environmental topics through posters, crafts, and interactive activities;
- and more! 

Through this event, our initiatives, and our activities, the SEC works to combat environmental apathy and inspire students to take action about pressing environmental issues in our school community and on a city, state, and national level. We hope that by encouraging sustainable practices in school, we can bring together a generation that is better equipped and motivated to promote positive change for our shared planet both in school and out.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership of the Stuyvesant Environmental Club is composed of the aptly named Leadership Council which consists of the Cabinet and Advisory Council.

The Cabinet consists of four positions: President, Vice President, and two Secretaries. Cabinet members are selected at club elections, which are typically held in late May or early June. The elections are moderated by the current Cabinet. Candidates present speeches and members vote on who they feel would best represent and lead the club in the coming school year. In order to run for Secretary or Vice President, candidates must accumulate at least 25 service hours. In order to run for President, candidates must accumulate at least 30 service hours.

The Advisory Council consists of committee directors and event leaders and works on specific club projects. Specific positions may vary from year to year based on club plans. The positions for the 2022-2023 school year are as follows: Green Team Committee Directors, Research Committee Directors, and Gardening Committee Directors. Advisory Council members are chosen by the newly elected Cabinet through an application form.

Should an elected or appointed officer neglect their responsibilities or fail to sufficiently meet expectations, this member will first be held accountable through a discussion with the other members of the Leadership Council, and a warning will be issued. However, if a pattern of improper behavior continues, they will hold a public discussion on the conduct of that officer during a monthly meeting as they highly value the opinions of members in decisions. Should members decide another candidate would better represent themselves and the club, a new election will be held regardless of the position.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Stuyvesant Environmental Club is unique because of its specific focus and wide range of activities: we're a tight-knit community of environmental enthusiasts with a variety of hobbies, interests, and talents. Our variety of activities, ranging from more science-focused research article writing for publications to more arts-focused ones like creating upcycled crafts, ensures that there's something for everyone. Our club also provides students access to exclusive speaker events and gardening opportunities in and out of school. We do a lot, but at heart, we're a club for anyone and everyone who cares about the environment.

