Mission Statement:
Puentes a la Hispanidad’s mission is to provide an enriching linguistic and cultural immersion program that extends far beyond the Spanish classroom.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet 1-2 times a month. All meetings are optional unless you are an aspiring or current cabinet member. Larger events, such as dinners and fundraisers will be held once every few months. Additionally, there is a Spanish teaching component that is open, once a month, to advanced and heritage students to help develop their Spanish skills.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Puentes a la Hispanidad’s purpose is to allow students of all backgrounds a space in which they can practice their Spanish in an authentic and beneficial manner. By focusing on current Latin events and discussing various forms of hispanic media, students can immerse themselves in the culture that is so greatly intertwined with the language they are learning. Beginner level students can build their confidence in their speaking skills, while advanced and heritage students can work to further develop their grammar techniques. Puentes is primarily focused on cultural immersion through practical application; by enabling students to improve their speaking skills, a skill which can be subject to neglect in a classroom setting, they are able to learn more about hispanic and latinx culture. Additionally, Puentes serves as a community outreach program in which students will host fundraisers to help give back to the community from which they are learning. 
Ultimately, club meetings typically consist of conversations (in Spanish, or “Spanglish”) that are structured around current day events in the hispanic world, accompanied by the sampling of cultural foods.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Spanish classes typically cater to a large number of students, which does not allow for teachers to hone in on individual students’ needs. As a result, Stuyvesant Spanish students often lack complete proficiency. Through Puentes a la Hispanidad, students are given the opportunity to truly focus on the more prominent aspect of the language: speaking! Spanish is spoken by over 500 million people worldwide, and having a strong grasp of the language benefits students’ career opportunities and allows for a better understanding of our interconnected, globalized society. After all, the focus of the club not only centers on the grammatical components of speech but the intertwining of language and culture. Puentes members are able to learn more about various hispanic cultures through food and the verbal analysis of prominent forms of media, such as novelas, movies, and music. Additionally, through multiple fundraisers, students are able to provide aid to hispanic and latinx communities throughout the world; Stuyvesant students are able to help marginalized communities benefit as they learn from these communities’ cultures and manners of speech. Ultimately, Puente provides a safe learning environment for all students to engage in positive cultural immersion and to efficiently practice the language they are interested in.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leaders are expected to help all Puentes a la Hispanidad members feel comfortable and welcome within the club environment. There are expectations for each position: President, Vice President, Treasurer, Events Coordinator, and Communications Director. If students and advisors of Puentes do not believe that a cabinet member is adhering to their responsibilities, or are not benefiting the club environment, they may communicate their concerns with other cabinet members and advisors. In the case that a cabinet member may be removed, all club members will hold a vote and decide whether or not that member should keep the position. Cabinet members can always step down from their positions. Otherwise, members may hold their roles until they graduate out of Stuyvesant. Leaders are expected to attend at least 85%+ meetings, and do their best to attend all irregular events. Any member that wishes to apply for a leadership position should strive to maintain the previously stated expectations. Ultimately, at the end of a leader’s term, a google form will be distributed to all club members that are interested in applying for the available cabinet position(s).

What makes this activity unique?:
Puentes a la Hispanidad will provide a culturally relevant and meaningful immersive experience in Spanish once a month to heritage speakers and intermediate-advanced students who wish to further their Spanish as soon as they begin their language-learning journey at Stuy. These enrichment classes will be recorded (with administration and parental consent) and serve as model classes citywide for how to facilitate instruction to heritage and advanced students of Spanish as part of the heritage language expansion initiative that is being undertaken by the New York City Department of Education. The course will be led by Sra. Genao, invited academics, and college guest lecturers who will share their expertise in different areas of Spanish linguistics and Latin American and Spanish history and culture. Additionally, the club will partner up with the Pulseras Project and Muñecas Negras, two nonprofit organizations that help underserved indigenous and afro-Latino communities in Central America and in the Dominican Republic. Puentes a la Hispanidad will be culturally and linguistically immersive while also being culturally responsive to the varying needs of our students and world. Lastly, cultural festivities and discussions on various topics will be held throughout the year as part of this unique club.

