Mission Statement:
Aspire is a program aiming to help students experience a better transition from middle school to high school

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Aspire will meet at least once a week, but if we are particularly busy, we will arrange extra meetings in advance.

 Ideally, we want to hold meetings on Tuesday or Friday. It is ideal to hold meetings on Tuesdays for the debate club members. People also won't have to worry about their schoolwork on Fridays.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Aspire's goal with mentoring is to inform middle school students about the intricacies of high school life by creating a personalized and comfortable environment through direct interactions with our high school mentors and middle school students. Through these meetings, the mentors will be able to make a greater impact and build a stronger connection with rising high schoolers.

Aspire plans to have all participating middle school students meet at Stuyvesant instead of only Townsend Harris or Brooklyn Technical High School where the mentors will then present slides or any other materials they may have prepared. Specific mentors can choose to hold independent supplemental meetings which can range from preparatory classes of middle school or high school topics to introduce new ideas. 

Aspire will be split into two branches Outreach and Advocacy. The Outreach branch will create the slides and supplemental materials during our club meetings and present it to the kids once a month, usually on the first Friday of the month. Whether members want to join help out in these meetings are optional as they will be quite late, 5 pm - 7 pm. The Advocacy Branch will work towards getting into contact with council members and city officials as well as promoting Aspire in places like the library or other places that students might frequent.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Aspire will benefit the Stuyvesant community in many ways:

1) Gaining Experience:
By teaching incoming freshmen how to navigate the labyrinth that is high school life. Aspire will also teach them skills that are crucial not only for getting into schools like Stuyvesant, but also for high school life, specifically things that we have learned from being high school students. Aspire mentees are given what to expect from their new schools and are also educated on how to interact and participate in their respective school communities to truly immerse themselves into their new home.  By bridging the middle school to high school transition, incoming high schoolers will be better prepared for the arduous (but critical) years ahead.

2) Sharing Knowledge:
Club members will be able to share their high school experiences and will thus be able to pass down their knowledge to those who need it the most.  In addition to this, club members will form friendships with mentees that will last the course of the program, perhaps even longer.

3) Fostering Community:
The more students participate in Aspire, the more connected those students will be.  By building high school friendships early on, incoming students will interact with each other more, thus making the Stuy community a welcoming and more welcoming place to be.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
In the Aspire Stuyvesant branch, there will be a club president and two co-presidents. When the leaders of the club resign or graduate, the club members will elect the new president. The new president will then choose the two co-presidents with the member’s overall suggestions.

If any leader or member has been accused of misconduct, the club will send a report of the incident(s) involving the member and their alleged misconduct to the Student Union and let them investigate. Depending on the seriousness of the matter, after the misconduct is proven to be true, we will then decide whether or not the leader can continue to operate in their role.

In decision making, all Aspire members will vote, with decisions being enacted by a simple majority. However, in Aspire, all members' voices are equal, and the concerns of all group members will be weighed, no matter if they are president or not.

Members are expected to comply with school policy, treat others with courtesy and respect, and listen to other group members

What makes this activity unique?:
Aspire is unique in that it is one of the few clubs that allows students to have a direct impact on their community through mentoring middle school students on the challenges and opportunities presented by high school. Aspire has also established sister branches at Brooklyn Technical High School and Townsend Harris High School. Allowing students from both schools to collaborate with each other and work together on how to more effectively reach out to middle schools

