Mission Statement:
Introducing Futsal to Stuy, a fun and exciting version of street-style soccer for everyone who wants to try.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
StuyFutsal will meet on a biweekly basis: on Tuesdays and Fridays after school in whichever school gym is available, from 3:40 - 5:00. The schedule will have to be flexible to accommodate for the other sports that reserve the gymnasiums.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
During meetings StuyFutsal will play small-sided games in the gymnasiums when they’re available or on a concrete surface. There will be teams of 3, 4 or 5 depending on the amount of people playing matches that are 15 minutes long before rotating. On some days members will simply practice to improve fundamental skills. StuyFutsal is an all-inclusive environment and will provide a space for those who weren’t able to make the team but still want an official place to play or want to improve before trying out. This experience will give members a foundation to build on and an effective practice space with no rigid commitments or physical conditioning. We’re also hoping the club is able to grow into perhaps a futsal team and inspire other schools to make futsal teams as well. It would be incredible to eventually create a futsal league for NYC high schools. At the moment, StuyFutsal will get started by introducing it to Stuy.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Futsal takes the team work and technicality required in soccer and channels it into creativity and quick decision making. It requires ball control and passing in small areas which ultimately builds great team chemistry. It’s great for those who already have experience in soccer and are looking for a different terrain or more of a quicker pace. It’s even better for those who are new and interested because players in a small-sided game are able to attain more playtime with the ball. It’s a lot more fluid than regular soccer where players in positions stay in their retrospective place on the field for most of the game. Futsal allows players to move from position to position which would help newer players figure out which specific position they’re best at. Further, since we’ll have players with different skill and athletic levels, StuyFutsal will provide a community where anyone can quickly acquire technical ability without the full rigor of playing on a full turf field soccer is normally played on. It’s also a great way to stay fit or become more fit. Players on the soccer team are welcome to join after the season is over to continue playing and get practice without overexerting themselves. As it’s more on the street-style side, players won’t necessarily need special gear.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Club officers are selected through a democratic process. Members nominate candidates during designated meetings. These nominations are followed by a voting procedure. The candidate who secures the majority of votes for a specific position is appointed to that role. This ensures that officers are chosen based on the collective will of the members. Impeachment: In cases where a member believes an officer is not fulfilling their duties or is acting against the club's best interests, a motion for impeachment can be raised. This motion should be accompanied by a clear and specific explanation of the grounds for removal. A formal vote is then held during a meeting. To impeach an officer, a majority vote in favor of removal is required. This process safeguards against arbitrary or unjust removals, ensuring that impeachments are carried out with the support of the majority. Both processes are designed to uphold transparency and fairness within the club. Further, anyone who’s had prior experience with futsal or soccer is welcome to give tips and tricks to newer members to the soccer community.

What makes this activity unique?:
Futsal in itself is a unique variation of soccer. It’s more of a smaller and street-style play of the game. It provides a fast-paced and highly energetic version of the game allowing players to show off their skills and quick-thinking abilities. The rules also slightly vary and the goals are typically smaller. Stuy and most highschools in NYC don’t have this variation of soccer although it is popular in many parts of the world such as Brazil and England.  Futsal will help to spice up what normally people envision soccer to be and it will be a new experience for those who already played soccer before and those interested in trying for the first time.

