Mission Statement:
The mission is to share the love for Asian music through live and Youtube vocal cover performances.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meeting schedules will be decided based on members’ availability (a form will be sent out). Each individual language will also have its own practice schedule; as of now there are three main languages (Chinese, Korean, Japanese), so there will be one meeting per week for each of those languages. Those who sign up to be in the group for a specific language will come to that meeting. Members are encouraged to apply to as many languages as they want and to suggest new languages that they think other students would like to add. In addition, there will also be a karaoke meeting once a month for everyone to gather and sing. All meeting activities will also be recorded and updated live in a spreadsheet. At the end of each project period, there will be a showcase where members can show off what they have recorded to the rest of the club. During the annual SOS showcase at the end of the year, members will also split into three groups (one for each language) and will have different practice days.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Vocalasia strives to create a community at Stuyvesant where members can connect with others who share an interest in Asian music. Vocalasia aims to bring together a supportive community of singers, regardless of level, and spread the love for Asian music. The mission of Vocalasia is to create a space where all members feel comfortable to appreciate and sing East Asian popular songs as a group. As of now, there are only 3 main languages (Chinese, Korean, and Japanese) represented in our club, but as members request more and demonstrate commitment, other languages will be added. This club is medium-high commitment because members are expected to learn the lyrics to the song beforehand through easy lyric youtube videos, along with guidance from fellow club members and leaders. Songs will be chosen based on a majority poll/vote, and there will be a theme each week (such as back to school, summer, girl crush, boy group, etc). If anyone wishes to sing a different song than the song voted for, they will be able to do so in a smaller group or individually.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Vocalasia will push members out of their comfort zone through the live performances and recordings. Members will be able to learn more about Asian cultures through other members and share this knowledge with non members. Every voice will be showcased regardless of skill and experience. If anyone feels uncomfortable singing live, even if they have a passion for singing, they can record Youtube covers instead. If possible, and depending on how many members would want to do so, there can also be a volunteering component of the club such as singing at nursing homes or singing for charity. Stuy students will be able to destress and have fun singing with others who share the same passion through performances, karaoke, and watch parties.There will also be the opportunity to perform in SOS (Stuyvesant Outlet Show) at the end of the year, where Vocalasia typically showcases three songs, one each in Chinese, Korean, and Japanese. There is also a non-singing aspect of the club that Stuy students can experience. Those who enjoy editing videos, photography, and videography, are welcome as well. The goal of this club is to be inclusive of all Stuy students who come from all walks of life and have diverse interests.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
​​The current Presidents and Vice President were already chosen for this term due to their capability to successfully manage a team. Once the President graduates, the vice-presidents will become Co-Presidents or President and Vice President. General leaders were also chosen based on a google form application and dedication to East Asian music. However, members who show clear commitment and passion and willingness to learn and lead may be selected by the leaders and a majority vote by club members to be on the leadership board. Despite this, every member has the chance to be a leader through each song as they can sign up to help teach a specific song (as long as they let it run by one of the board members first). If for any reason, any leader misses too many meetings, greatly offends someone, produces hate speech, or anything of that matter, they will be impeached through a discussion with the leadership board and a majority vote within the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club is the only East Asian vocal cover group at Stuy. While there are Kpop and Cpop clubs, those focus on dancing. There are also acapella clubs, but those do not include instrumental and require auditions. Anyone is welcome in this club, as long as they have a passion for singing and a willingness to learn and work as a team. Members can also perform live at school events and venues as well as record covers for youtube. Members are also able to sing many types of songs in Chinese, Korean, Japanese, etc. lyrics. Members may also gain experience singing solos, duos, trios, and in a team.

