Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Computer Science Outreach is an organization focused on promoting computer science throughout all levels of communities.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will be meeting once a week, but it may occasionally be twice a week.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Computer Science Outreach aims to introduce computer science to people who are not familiar with the field. There will be lectures, both virtual and in-person, at schools, libraries, and community centers.  Stuyvesant Computer Science Outreach is mainly driven by its goal to decrease barriers and increase access to computer science.  Stuyvesant Computer Science Outreach hopes that by decreasing barriers to the field, more people will develop a passion for it.  In addition, Stuyvesant Computer Science Outreach hopes that some people will even incorporate it within their daily lives, using it to expedite their work process.  Furthermore, students can demonstrate their own capabilities.  Members are not required to know a programming language in order to join the club as there are positions focused on other fields, such as hardware or maintaining logistics for the club.  Generally, members are expected to attend one meeting a week.  Members who are lecturers are required to teach once every three weeks.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant Computer Science Outreach gives students the opportunity to help make an impact on a meaningful level in communities with their passion for computer science.   Stuyvesant Computer Science Outreach promotes an agenda to help.  It encourages members to become agents of change.  This opportunity  allows members to go beyond just individual achievements and to find a purpose for their technical skills within a societal context.  The members will have the chance to make lasting impacts on people and communities while doing something they enjoy. Furthermore, members will foster the interest and passion they have in computer science within beginners.  Teaching others will also allow members to improve their communication skills.  Students will have many opportunities to work with the guest speakers and learn priceless information about professionals’ experiences in the field.  Stuyvesant Computer Science Outreach also puts high emphasis on teamwork.  During their time at Stuyvesant Computer Science Outreach, members will collaborate and form friendships with other members who are also interested in computer science.  Members can then utilize the skills they have learned from the experiences and incorporate them into other aspects of their lives.  Additionally, Stuyvesant Computer Science Outreach develops a democratic and empathetic environment in which all members can contribute to the club no matter how much experience they may have.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions are President, Vice-President, Head(s) of Lecturing, and Head(s) of Logistics.  These leadership positions compose the executive board.  Leadership will be chosen based on a skills-based assessment and a following interview by members of the executive board.  Leaders will be expected to conduct themselves in a respectful and helpful manner towards all members.  Any deviation from that expectation will result in a review of the person’s leadership and membership.  The transfer of leadership will be overseen by the executive board and it will require a majority vote by the executive board to appoint a new leader.  If there are grievances against any of the members on the executive board, those grievances will be investigated by the members of the executive board and non-leaders.  If those grievances are true and the impeachment of the leader comes into question, the leader will be impeached if a majority of the other executive members vote to impeach and a majority of the other members also vote to impeach.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant Computer Science Outreach is unique in that it goes beyond just the community of Stuyvesant and tries to break down barriers to make computer science more accessible for members of all levels of the community.   Stuyvesant Computer Science Outreach is not restrained to just one programming language.  This way, it allows members to showcase their talents while still working towards a common goal.  All people are welcome, no matter if they know how to code or not.

