Mission Statement:
The Model Kit Club creates an inclusive space for all model kit hobbyists to build scale models through fun and constructive group projects.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The club meets on Thursday every week. If there is no school on Thursday, meetings take place on the last school day of the week. Meeting days may change based on member availability. Please consult the calendar for exact dates.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Model Kit Club’s purpose is to emphasize hands-on work, creativity, and teamwork in a fun and relaxing context. This club was founded on the belief that a healthy intellect requires the opportunity to produce work one can proudly call their own, to exercise one’s artistry, and to work collaboratively in a productive and enjoyable manner. Unfortunately, the average experience at Stuyvesant diminishes these vital experiences, instead focusing on transferring sheer volumes of information. To overcome the limitations imposed by this style of education, students need the chance to experience something different and enjoyable, which the club fosters using scale models, establishing a stress-free, low-commitment environment that welcomes everyone to build and learn about scale models together, with the ultimate goal being to provide a fulfilling and unique experience that will provide some variety, excitement, and relaxation to the Stuyvesant community. Members are expected foremost to respect the space, equipment, and each other. Members must also follow all instructions given by leaders to ensure the club works correctly. Failure to comply will result in warnings before suspension or permanent removals.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Model Kit Club benefits the Stuyvesant community by providing a wide range of positive experiences, from the building experience, to a place to relax with friends, to a place to pick up new and unique skills. Scale modeling is a great opportunity to wind down after a long week and is described by some to be a meditative process. Beyond the hobby itself, the club is a great place to hang out with friends or meet new ones as the space is very open and members have a lot of freedom in going about the building process, so long as they follow a limited set of rules. Building a model alone can be a long and taxing process, so working with friends can be more enjoyable. The club also offers learning opportunities for people of any experience level. Lessons covering everything from basic skills with a sprue cutter to advanced skills in customization. Although many of the tools used in scale modeling are very specialized, the hands-on experience goes a long way in improving proficiency in any other handiwork someone might do. Something to highlight is that the club is free for all members to participate. The directors of the club fund all expenses independently or using school allocations, meaning members will never be required to pay for new model kits or tools. This is a great advantage over solo building, which can get expensive quickly. A feature offered to members is the ability to practice building under the guidance of directors and experienced builders in order to earn a certification, which will allow members to take part in advanced-level projects and complicated builds. New builders can take crash courses and practice building risk-free on beginner friendly models.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Model Kit Club is operated by a number of directors with unique positions, collectively known as the director board. Multiple directors may share the same position and will be known as a department (ex. Finance Department). The positions include Finance Director, Logistics Director, Publicity Director, Organization Director, Assistant Director, and Managing Director.

The club offers a variety of director positions that allow people to bring their unique skills to the table, even if they are not building experts. Directors with talents not already listed are welcome to suggest a new position. Aspiring directors must apply for leadership via a Google Form which will be available throughout the year. Final decisions will be made by managing directors and are effective immediately. Decisions will be made based on the skills listed in the application but past participation in the club will be heavily weighted.

The impeachment process must be initiated by a director in writing, stating the reason for impeachment. This will be reviewed by all other directors who will discuss the situation before coming to a vote. If over half of the directors vote in favor of impeachment, the director in question will be removed. If not, the situation will be mediated without removal of the director in question.

What makes this activity unique?:
While there have been other scale model clubs in the past, we are currently the only club in Stuyvesant history that brought real building to a classroom and ensured it was available to everyone. This club presents an opportunity for anyone to jump into the hobby, regardless of prior knowledge. Through various funding methods we are able to provide high quality kits for members to build, free of charge. This club is a comprehensive look into the scale modeling, and it aims to raise awareness about this awesome hobby within the Stuyvesant community.

