Mission Statement:
Seek aims to create a community of students dedicated to bringing environmental awareness through collaborative, engaging events and social media.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will have monthly online meetings that will each last about an hour. The links will always be accessible on StuyActivities prior to each meeting.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of this organization is to bring environmental awareness through our website and social media pages as well as inspire others to take immediate action to benefit the environment and community.
Through hosting a variety of events, including park and beach clean-ups, Seek aims to actively engage members and empower them to become advocates of positive change. Our events serve as platforms for open dialogue, education, and collaboration, fostering connections among individuals who share a passion for preserving our planet. By offering opportunities for hands-on projects, we channel this passion into tangible efforts, working together to address local and global environmental challenges. Through expanding our platform on social media, we hope to spread knowledge about pressing environmental issues and cultivate a well-informed global community that is motivated to take initiative. Seek's overarching purpose is to inspire a deep sense of responsibility for the environment, which will prompt a collective commitment to sustainable practices and the safeguarding of Earth's natural resources for the benefit of current and future generations.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This organization allows students across different schools to collaborate on a shared goal of bettering our environment and raising awareness about our world. Integrating Seek into the school community promises to deliver multifaceted benefits that extend far beyond its immediate members. By promoting environmental awareness through engaging campaigns, events, and opportunities, Seek instills a culture of conscious responsibility and sustainability among students, faculty, and staff. This heightened environmental consciousness not only enhances students’ overall educational experience, but also equips them with critical life skills and a broader perspective on global challenges. Seek's inclusive approach fosters unity and collaboration, bringing together individuals from diverse backgrounds to work towards a shared purpose. By joining Seek, students will be able to develop skills that extend beyond the classroom. Students will enhance communication skills as they collaborate with fellow peers and community members to raise awareness about environmental issues. Through active participation in monthly meets, organizing campaigns and events, students will also cultivate leadership skills as by guiding projects, and inspiring others to take action. Ultimately, Seek's impact resonates far beyond its activities, leaving a lasting legacy of empowered individuals who are equipped to make informed choices and lead efforts towards a greener, more sustainable future

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Before current leaders graduate, a Google Form will be sent out for various positions, which will then be evaluated by all executive members. Applicants will answer questions that ask for their future aspirations for Seek, their reason for applying, and aspects that Seek could be improved on. Applicants will also be judged by how active they have been in Seek monthly meetings and environmental events. Before applying, all members should be made aware of the responsibilities of each leadership position, which will be outlined in a Google Doc, and should have a passion for creating a positive change in the environment. As the club grows, other leadership roles, such as graphics director, secretary, social media director, etc will also be added on. If a leader is not fulfilling their role, they will receive a strike. Examples include consistently failing to attend monthly meetings or displaying misconduct during environmental events. After three strikes, they will automatically be removed from the board, and their leadership position will be open to other members.

What makes this activity unique?:
What sets Seek apart is its distinctive identity as a city-wide collaborative initiative, uniting students from various schools under a common umbrella of environmental awareness and action. This expansive network provides a unique platform for students to transcend the boundaries of their individual schools, fostering meaningful connections and relationships across diverse backgrounds and perspectives. Seek's city-wide reach amplifies its impact, creating multiple opportunities for students to engage, collaborate, and collectively address environmental challenges on a broader scale. This interconnectedness not only empowers participants with a broader sense of purpose and community, but also opens doors to a multitude of opportunities all aimed at equipping students with a holistic understanding of environmental issues and the tools to create tangible change. Through its city-wide collaboration, Seek stands as a catalyst for forging lasting friendships, nurturing leadership skills, and expanding horizons, ultimately creating a powerful ripple effect that extends well beyond the classroom walls.

