Mission Statement:
StuyBallroom wants to spread the art of latin/ballroom dancing to fellow peers and anyone who wants a method of expressing themselves.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will have an open class once a month, with closed/member only meetings about 3-6 times a month depending on the upcoming event(s).

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StudyBallroom is a club focused on the variety of dance styles in Latin/Ballroom dancing. It includes traditional dancesport styles‐ such as the Cha-Cha, Samba, Rumba, Paso-Doble, and Jive‑, social latin styles like the Salsa, and even stunting tricks. StuyBallroom will teach and nurture new and existing talents so everyone can step, spin, and fly. Members are able to join in on projects and performances held both in and outside of school. Anyone, even non-members, are able to join in on the fun by attending open classes. Learn to soar and swing in the air, as well as dance with and meet new people. StuyBallroom hopes to perform and attend competitions as well showcases. StuyBallroom aims to prepare for all the schoolwide dance opportunities including Stuy Squad, Sing, and SOS. Members of all grades are encouraged to join and learn. In addition to learning about various dance styles, Stuyballroom explores the rich, cultural backgrounds of latin and ballroom dancing.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyBallroom offers all sorts of outlets and types of dance. Everyone is able to have fun and meet new people while staying active. Not only does StuyBallroom teach dance styles from all around the world, but Ballroom can actually help students get fit and even improve posture and release stress. Ballroom is a great way to also feel the stage and learn to perform. StuyBallroom often participates in school wide events and showcases, which is a great time to get over stage fright. StuyBallroom will have at least one class a month that anyone can attend. These open classes are great opportunities for people who are on the fence about dancing and just want something fun to do when they are free. Ballroom dancing can help students get more confident about dancing with partners or just simply enjoying themselves while they dance. Not only does StuyBallroom offer open classes, but by becoming full-time members, students can also learn how to choreograph all sorts of styles of Latin. StuyBallroom recruits choreographers each year, meaning that students that join are allowed to grow and improve and potentially become a choreographer in the future. StuyBallroom also helps improve school pride as a competition and showcase team by going to both competitions and even public performances.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions will be appointed during their junior/sophomore year as assistant before they become their role during their junior/senior year. Founding members are an exception. Other positions include Social Media Manager, Choreographers, and Stunt Teachers. Presidents and SMM are board members. There are two presidents, 2 SMM, ~2 extra Choreographers (presidents are also Choreographers) and two Stunt Teachers. If necessary, based on a majority vote, appointed leaders may be removed and replaced. All positions are expected to have at least 1-2 years of experience in the field before they are considered. To become a president, the current president will choose a potential member based on past performance. SMM, Choreographer, and Stunt Teachers will fill out forms during their freshman/sophmore year to become an assistant the following year. All applicants will be interviewed by the president to ensure the best applicant is chosen. Freshman may be considered if they show exceptional performance. If so, the presidents will individually talk with them.

What makes this activity unique?:
Ballroom is one of the only clubs that offers multiple dances in one and caters specific attention to numerous aspects, ranging from facial expressions to arms and footwork. You can learn to move with elegance and gracefulness, as well as fierceness and not only does it include the traditional Dancesport styles of the Cha-Cha, Samba, Rumba, Paso-Doble, and Jive, it also includes cool stunting tricks where people fly and twirl in the air. Ballroom offers open classes to anyone willing to try.

