Mission Statement:
Stuy FBLA's goal is to foster a community of future business leaders through conferences, student-led workshops, online resources, and more.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings are held on Thursdays and occasionally Fridays. At the beginning of each month, a meeting will be held which goes over the events of the month and offers reminders on upcoming deadlines. There will also be 1-2 workshops in which students can hone their skills in a specific area under the guidance of an experienced student mentor. More meetings may be held each month for a special occasion. Members can also choose to attend the district conference, which will be released early in the season. More opportunities include the state and national conferences, but those events have prerequisites for qualification.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of Stuy FBLA as a school chapter of the Future Business Leaders of America organization is to prepare its members to compete successfully in various divisions and conferences. At the beginning of the school year, students will have the opportunity to explore different divisions of FBLA through student-led workshops hosted monthly on each topic. As competition season arrives, members will choose a few events to focus on where they will work with other members with similar interests to improve at their chosen skill. Our club will help create teams or groups for members who wish to compete in team divisions and provide opportunities to attend conferences with other talented high school students from all across the country. As students are preparing for FBLA competitions, they are also able to learn important business related skills that will help them in the future and meet people with similar interests as them.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy FBLA allows students to participate in events offered by the organization FBLA, which “helps high school students prepare for careers in business through academic competitions, leadership development, and educational programs.” The organization is focused on giving students a taste of what it is like to work in the business sector as an adult. This club can educate the Stuyvesant community about important business related skills that can also be helpful in daily life. FBLA hopes to give students exposure to multiple career pathways so that they can be prepared for the future. Students also have the opportunity to gain experience in business careers through provided resources and can learn to appreciate the importance of understanding business. Furthermore, Stuy FBLA helps its members to distinguish themselves from their peers by immersing them in a competitive environment where they can demonstrate their abilities. By joining this club, students will learn and develop skills that will aid them in their careers and lives, such as leadership, money management, personal finance, and more. FBLA is a great resource for high school students interested in learning business concepts, and it is one of the few ways they can gain experience as most internships and other opportunities are exclusively available to those who already have experience. Stuy FBLA has no prior experience requirements, so it is the perfect place for students with any amount of previous knowledge to develop their interest in business and demonstrate their passions through competitions and leadership.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Stuy FBLA’s leadership structure includes a President who oversees the club and manages FBLA conferences, along with a Vice-President to help them run the club. Staff positions include: Event Organizer, Head of Publicity, Social Media Manager, Treasurer, Secretary, IT Director, Reporter, and Mentors. At the end of every year, the President and Vice President open applications for unfilled staff positions, which will include a Google Form component and an interview. The President, Vice President, Head of Publicity, and Secretary meet to rate each applicant according to a rating sheet. They will consider applicants and choose the ones they think are best suited to the position based on their activity at meetings and competitions. If a chosen staff member is a senior, a deputy is also appointed to the position to learn from them. A special case is made for the President; if the Vice-President remains in the club after the President leaves, they will automatically assume the position. If they graduate in the same year, the existing staff will elect the new President, and the President will choose their new Vice-President.
Impeachment of any staff member works through a submission by any member of the club to the advisor, which must include a valid and specific reason. They will call all staff together to organize a club-wide vote on the possible impeachment. If more than ⅔ of the club’s members agree to impeach the leader, they will be removed from their position and replacement will occur as if they had graduated. If more than ½ of the club’s members agree to impeach the leader, they will be given a warning. If the staff member in question accumulates three warnings, they are automatically impeached.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy FBLA is the official Stuyvesant chapter of the organization Future Business Leaders of America. It is the only platform for interested Stuyvesant students to practice for and compete in FBLA and participate in their various events. In addition, Stuy FBLA helps to prepare students to be successful in FBLA competitions and future business endeavors. The skills learned here will help students gain experience to prepare for future company management positions and tackle the struggles of daily life as an adult. Participating in FBLA shows colleges and companies that the student is passionate and experienced in business topics, making them seem like a better candidate for internships and other opportunities.

