Mission Statement:
The Girls Chess Club works towards presenting an encouraging and collaborative environment for girls, with all levels of experience, in chess!

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The meeting schedule currently aims to meet once a week on alternative Mondays and Tuesdays. The club hopes to continue this throughout the school year.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Chess is mentally challenging and abstract game that requires strategy. However, despite its toughness, it can also be very fun to play! The Girls Chess Club with HMN works to create a supportive environment for girls in chess, whether it is with experienced players or new people who are interested in learning! This club is open to all experience levels, providing for girls who just want to have some fun and play a few games or also for women who are more serious and hope to compete competitively! The club will host meetings once a week where members would be able to practice, learn from, and play with each other. The club would also organize groups of people to play in tournaments whether there are more local ones in the city or larger ones at a national level. As chess is a predominantly male sport, many girls feel isolated and stop playing after elementary/middle school. The Girls Chess Club wants to motivate girls to continue, or start, a passion, despite the overwhelming gender gap in chess. The club hopes, by not only increasing the numbers of girls playing chess but also their overall commitment to it, to slowly work towards closing the gender gap.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Girls Chess Club encourages girls to play chess and participate in scholastic chess tournaments. The All Girls Chess Club is a welcoming place for students to make new friends and feel open to making mistakes and learning together. Furthermore, it allows for unique opportunities to compete at All Girls Chess tournaments and showcase the highest potential in the players. The Stuyvesant Girls Chess Club allows players to foster a sense of community which is not easily achieved, especially taking into consideration the huge gender gap in chess. The club will allow individuals to strengthen their skills while still working in a group setting and having a fun time! This organization hopes to create a strong and active Girls Chess Club to inspire the future grades to participate. In addition, chess has a very long and rich history not only about variations of the game but also about who can play it. So, as the club studies and practices different openings, members will receive an insight into the deep history of such moves and become knowledgeable about important and successful chess players. Chess also helps stimulate the brain and there has been a positive correlation between students excelling in Chess and in other STEM fields. This can encourage female chess players in Stuyvesant to pursue STEM outside of the chess world.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Stuyvesant Girls Chess Club currently consists of one President and one Vice-President. These 2 people in executive positions will work together to provide for the rest of the members and make sure the club is running smoothly. They will make decisions on activities for meeting and be the people to reach out to if any problems occur. In addition to that, the club will have 2 leadership positions open; a Social Media Manager/PR and a Director of communications. Leadership positions will be accepted through and determined from responses on google forms and a following interview. Leadership positions are appointed to members who show a willingness to be committed to going to meetings, planning schedules, attending tournaments, and interacting on social media. Executive and leadership positions will be retained throughout the years until graduation unless noted otherwise. If an executive or leader is not keeping up with the required work, not attending the club or board meetings, or not being respectful to fellow members, they face the possibility of being voted out of their position. Besides that, as higher grades graduate, those in line for executive positions will take it up and leadership applications will once again be sent out. If a member is not being respectful to their club mates, they will be removed.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant's Girls Chess Club not only focuses on practicing and learning but also has a top priority of providing a comfortable and uplifting environment as the club recognizes the vital importance of a good community. In addition, since the club has a specific audience, it allows members to create a strong team for girls' chess tournaments like All Girls Nationals. The club is hoping to partner with organizations such as “Her Move Next” which has a similar mission to support female chess players. Furthermore, as the club builds a strong, connected team it will have many opportunities to go around the city, state, country and even the world playing tournaments. This activity also hopes to transform the stigma around chess and support a low stress environment, where members can develop a new hobby and enjoy their experience. Lastly, due to the strategic thinking that playing chess develops, a specific skill set is created and can be applied later in life when in adult-life scenarios.

