Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Competitive Gaming Club unites our gaming community and provides opportunities to participate in eSport leagues for Valorant and League

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We plan to meet once per month to discuss the current state of the club, meeting more frequently during our eSports season and whenever we host tournaments.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Competitive Gaming Club is here to unite the fragmented, but large gaming community at Stuyvesant. Members can connect with other players to “queue” with. We also have a community of competitive, high ranked players that can help you improve in your game of choice. We also host tournaments throughout the year to fuel the competitive spirit of the club. Our other goal is to increase the legitimacy of eSports. We have an eSports team for Valorant and League of Legends that gets to compete in a local league known as "EzEsports", which includes many other familiar high schools. Players on the team will have the opportunity to scrim in person at places such as Long Island University and Pace University eSports Arenas, which can create connections that lead to scholarships. We aim to find opportunities for our teams, promote them through social media, and give them more credibility at Stuyvesant. Lastly, we have opportunities for those that want to get involved in Stuyvesant eSports without actually playing, such as social media, outreach, and IT positions.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
It is clear that gaming is a large, but fragmented activity at Stuyvesant. We want to unite the entire community under one roof and allow like-minded people to connect with each other in a controlled environment. We also allow those with a passion for eSports to finally convert their hobbies into an asset, giving them networking opportunities with players from other schools and connecting them to eSports coaches from local collegiate teams. This past year, our benefits were apparent. We hosted a Valorant tournament with Brooklyn Tech, allowing our members to form teams in a competitive but fun environment, established a Valorant and League of Legends eSports team for the first time in Stuyvesant history, and managed to get some of our players the opportunity to play at Long Island University, connecting them to the coach of the eSports teams for future scholarships. These activities massively increase school spirit as eSports is an activity that viewers can view from the comfort of their home, and an activity that a large number of people can view at a time (Stuyvesant’s Esports matches gain thousands of views on twitch). For the years to come, our operations only seem to be growing, and as we grow, the benefits only increase.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
So far, we already have a President, a Vice President, and two Executive Directors. We plan on opening up more positions based on what we need, such as Head of Media and Head of IT. Openings for these positions will be sent out in the beginning of the year through a google forms, and will be decided based on past commitment, experience, and the answers to questions on the form. However, as the year progresses, we take note of each member’s demonstration of leadership, commitment, and determination and we release another set of applications at the end of the year depending on the open positions. If a leader refuses to do their share of work, there will be a discussion amongst the leadership on whether or not to replace said leader with another member. If a leader is being toxic and overall not nice, they will also be considered for removal.

What makes this activity unique?:
Our organization is unique because we provide many opportunities for players to turn competitive gaming into a skill rather than just a hobby. We are part of a local eSports league (EzEsports) and have connections with University coaches to allow our players to play at eSports Arenas in person. There are important non-gaming roles in the club to allow those interested in eSports to help the push for eSports in our school to grow. We also host events with other schools for the more casual part of the club, providing a large number of opportunities to connect with like minded people from all over the city.

