Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Bulls teaches underclassmen a plethora of advanced investing strategies and statistics in a simple way and prepares future CFAs and CFPs.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Stuyvesant Bulls meets twice each week, but members can choose to show up to general meetings only which occur once each week. On Mondays, meeting time will be allocated mostly toward the Wharton Investment Competition while on Tuesdays meetings will be the usual lecture, presentation, practice, project and/or event. Members can expect meetings to start after 10th and end anywhere between 4:40-5:00.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of Stuyvesant Bulls is to teach the advanced tools, statistics, strategies, and knowledge that are utilized by the pros of Wall Street to unworldly levels of success. On top of all of that, the club aims to expose members to the mindset of a successful investor but also the traits of one, such as: patience, hard work, and focus. Collectively this ensures that each member possess that extra edge in the world of investing which is important to reach success financially but also to succeed in many careers such as financial analysis and planning. Another key focus of the club is to have members apply advanced investing principles to real life situations in a way that benefits your finances as much as possible. Mainly all advanced strategies, statistics, and information taught by Stuyvesant Bulls will be associated with one of two categories: fundamental analysis and/or technical analysis. But to break it down further, each hour-long meeting will have 3 parts: a lecture, a presentation, and hands-on practice. A lecture will be the primary source of exposure to advanced investment vehicles such as using leverage, shorting, options, dollar cost averaging, trading. The lecture will also contain important stock related statistics and information such as RSI, detailed graphs/models, advanced stock screeners, margins, moving averages, market cap, eps, interest rates (and their impacts), how to analyze companies through their 10-K or 10-Q, and how to analyze various economic reports. Along with all of that, the lecture section will also include learning from case studies, studying notable investors like Warren Buffet, discussing financial news, but also teach about the intricacies and higher levels of investing/trading bonds, gold, commodities, real estate, and currencies. This will all be crucial to train future CFAs and CFPs so that they can advise clients or apply their knowledge in a multitude of different scenarios, but also will be crucial for individual success through investing. Next, the presentation section will be used to summarize previous meetings and present new intricate findings that are relevant to the economy and the agenda of the meeting. Above all, hands-on simulator practice will put investment strategies to the test and allow members to learn through experiencing the risks of the markets. Members are expected to attend weekly meetings, participate, and engage in practice simulators. Members will have the chance to take part in the Wharton Investment Competition although it is not required.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant Bulls benefits the school community primarily by providing the higher-level information and skills necessary for students to become very knowledgeable in their finances, very successful investors, and efficient consumers in the future. The truth is that life and the decisions people make are often based on finances regardless of what the circumstances are. Hence, the abundance of varied, high-level financial expertise that is provided by Stuyvesant Bulls can be used to help people become better financially oriented decision makers which improves every aspect of one's life at least partially. This way of making decisions can optimize the Stuyvesant community financially which is a key benefit. This is because better use and expansion of one's finances allows for one's money to be leveraged the most, this in short means that with expertise in finance you can do more with the money you have. This allows people to do more of what they love and help others effectively. Another key benefit for the Stuyvesant community is that the club brings up awareness about tons of common and costly financial errors or struggles so the community is not weakened by them and instead can beat them. Furthermore, the knowledge members learn in this club will not only prepare members for the complicated world ahead, but also will provide members with a lucrative head start against others in wealth accumulation. This is because of the phenomena compound interest which in simplest terms means interest on interest. The younger people begin and understand such concepts (of investing, finance, etc.) the more years they will have for their wealth to compound and grow exponentially which means they will be richer than those who start after them. And once they start all that is required is persistence and financial freedom can be achieved simply by waiting. On the other hand, members will learn additional advanced, supplementary strategies that have a higher potential for return and thus more benefit. Lastly, this activity will provide prospective members with a valuable opportunity to interact and learn alongside others part of the Stuyvesant community in an enjoyable and welcoming environment.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Stuyvesant Bulls offers many positions such as: VP of Marketing, VP of Communications, and VP of Research that each have 1-year terms. To be considered for a position you must be hard-working, involved in meetings, knowledgeable in the position, and have good attendance, also experience is preferred but not required. Appointment begins with a google form in which prospective candidates choose which position they will run for and answer a few qualifying questions. In beginning of the next meeting candidates will give a short 1-minute speech on why they should be elected for the position, after this a vote will follow. Voting (using simple majorities) is conducted in rounds in which each member votes for a candidate and the lowest ranked candidate drops out followed by another round of voting until one candidate remains. Leadership transfer votes would happen at the end of the school year. To impeach a leader there are two preliminary requirements: 2 warnings from the president or vice president and/or many complaints from members. Impeachment votes require a 2/3 vote to pass.

What makes this activity unique?:
What makes this club unique is that the club focuses entirely on underclassmen and beginners thus providing great access to advanced investing for this audience. This club includes a plethora of highly unique and highly advanced strategies, valuable statistics, an eclectic selection of uncommon assets, case study analysis, and notably exposure to specifically two career paths; CFAs or CFPs thus providing more knowledge, experience, and opportunities than others, all of which can be applied in a vast number of ways. Therefore, members would be uniquely able to approach decision making and investing at a very high level with uncommon knowledge thus providing an informed head start for people who value their finances or are interested in them. Our club is uniquely laser focused on the long-detailed reports that swing the world's finances which extends to international economics and stock markets giving members knowledge about the macro and micro to a great extent. The club would be also of the first to take part in the Wharton Investment Competition providing our members an unrestrictive opportunity to compete in a prestigious competition unlike other clubs. The club also heavily focuses on research and learning about new topics (e.g. AI, Fintech, different industries, etc.) which would provide a variety of experiences and knowledge that is not just focused on one topic. Also, the club focuses on interactive hands-on learning that builds off each member's knowledge which makes Stuyvesant Bulls unique. The club’s pillars of leadership, hard work, and teamwork also ensure that each member that joins will learn not just about finance, but also will improve as a person. These fundamentals are what create such a great and unique community, one that the club would like to expand for years to come.

