Mission Statement:
Literary Identities is a welcoming club dedicated to reading queer books and discussing media through a queer lens.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We read one book a month and meet on Fridays three times a month to discuss the month’s book. We will also occasionally have other meetings with guest speakers, special events, or discussions focused on specific topics.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Literary Identities will unite Stuyvesant students through a shared love of literature in all mediums and encourage critical thinking skills through reading. The role of queerness in literature is often rarely discussed and heavily underrepresented in society. We aim to ensure that students will have the opportunity to explore both familiar and unfamiliar literature through a different lens and discuss ideas including queer themes, queer representation (or lack thereof), and more. Literary Identities will also focus on reducing stigma that surrounds LGBTQ+ issues and aim to discuss harmful queer tropes. Each month, we will read and focus on a new book in our meetings, which will be chosen by popular vote, as well as analyze a new theme in each meeting. The club will also occasionally host other events like discussion meetings on a specific topic or movie nights with queer shows or movies (we may or may not bring snacks!).

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Our club will benefit the Stuyvesant community by providing a safe space for queer students and allies, as well as developing a sense of community for them. Members will be able to have fun and make friends through a shared love of reading. Our club aims to introduce new literature that is seldom taught in classes and not included in standard curricula—in other words, literature that spotlight or highlight queer identities that, due to their subject of “taboo” topics, subsequently receive less exposure. These clubs are especially important in this climate since legislation like the “Don’t Say Gay'' bill was passed, limiting the normalization of the LGBTQ+ community. Consider how often a student actually reads queer books or even books with queer characters that are not riddled with harmful tropes. Our club will host discussions on these important topics and others like the development of character identities and other socially stigmatized ideas. We will also discuss other forms of literature, which are not often explored in academia and even literature originating from other countries. This introduces Stuyvesant students to new voices and perspectives and, in turn, allows them to explore new ideas that they may not have considered otherwise. And we promote reading (and education)!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There will be three presidents and two or three vice presidents who lead the club, oversee club operations, maintain contact with the school administration and the rest of the council, as well as create and teach lessons. This makes up the cabinet. The presidents are responsible for managing club activities, as well as communicating coherently to the rest of the club. The vice presidents design slides or other materials to present to the club, manage administrative tasks, and lead discussions. The presidents will hold applications for cabinet on a rolling basis when positions are available. Cabinet member(s) can be impeached if a two-thirds majority of the club and a simple majority of the cabinet vote for impeachment when cabinet member(s) fail to uphold proper conduct. Members of the club are expected to remain in good standing with the school and attend at least one meeting. Everyone is expected to follow the rules of StuyActivities.

What makes this activity unique?:
Literary Identities will focus specifically on queer literature and queer readings of literature. Most book choices will not necessarily be “mainstream” books and will instead, often highlight less well-known authors. Even so, we will also review popular books and analyze them through a queer-centric lens. Members can come to view media differently and examine common tropes that have come to represent queerness in broader society. Above all, we wish to create a club that encourages discussion around these topics and welcomes everyone.

