Mission Statement:
This beginner-friendly club is dedicated to designing, assembling, and launching rockets.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We plan to hold in-person meetings twice a month for designing and building phases, but we will also hold occasional online meetings to learn about various aspects of rocketry.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Through the utilization of computer-aided design, 3D-printing, programming, and various other STEM skills, we will be developing hobby-level rockets. In order to construct more effective and efficient rockets, we will also be diving into the math and physics behind how rockets work. A rocket has many delicate parts whether it be motor, parachute, nosecone, or anything in between, and this club aims to not only spread the theory that goes into each rocket part, but also the joy and fascination when the rocket, in fully assembled form, finally lifts off into the sky. This club is not aiming to develop the latest NASA orbital rocket booster, and we are instead focused on developing smaller-scale model rockets, in compliance with FAA regulations. As part of the club activities, there will initially be a design process lasting up to 4 weeks, in which we will take into account rocket pressure, stability, and force among other considerations, to design our rocket using specialized rocket design and simulation software. During this design stage we will also go over various algorithms and scientific theories related to rocket science, which will help us construct more successful rockets. Once the design phase is complete, we will move into the build phase, in which we will build the rocket using the materials we have selected. We will also have competitions within the club, in which we will split into groups, and each group will attempt to design and build the superior rocket. We hope that these activities within the club will get members interested in the engineering design process, particularly with regards to the aerospace domain.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant High School lacks an aerospace engineering-oriented community, and this club is here to fill that space. Through this club, members will be exposed to principles of the engineering design process, including computer-aided design and experimentation through trial and error. The STEM skills learned here, such as basic aerodynamics, can be applied throughout the rest of their lives, whether as career engineers or simply model rocket hobbyists. Through demonstrations of our rocket projects and participation in national rocketry competitions, this club will not only help boost the reputation of Stuyvesant High School, but will also inspire others with our passion for rocketry and aerospace engineering. The excitement over rocketry extends worldwide, and this club, through international partnerships with high school rocketry clubs abroad, thus hopes to further spread the engineering knowledge and passion that comes with rocketry. Considering the exciting atmosphere of space exploration taking hold throughout the world, we hope to inspire the next generation of Stuyvesant aerospace engineers through hands-on projects designing, building, and launching rockets. These projects will teach members important aerospace and mechanical engineering concepts in addition to aspects of various rocket components, including their purposes, use cases, and conventional design types. Overall, it is through rocketry that we believe that this club will nurture members’ creativity, innovative ability, and passion for STEM.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The club’s leadership consists of a president and a vice president. These two leaders will be responsible for setting meeting dates, planning and preparing for meetings, and ensuring that the club retains its original atmosphere through adherence to the club charter. If either of the club leaders is not performing up to expectations or is not regularly attending meetings, any club member may initiate an impeachment proceeding against the leader in question, and if two-thirds of members agree to impeach, then the leader in question will be removed from their club leadership position. The president has the authority to replace leadership positions if the leader in question is not performing up to task. As the club expands and new members join, it may be necessary to create and appoint new leadership positions to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the club. Towards the end of the school year in the spring, new leaders for the upcoming school year will be appointed by the graduating leaders. The graduating leaders are expected to train the new leaders to prepare them for their club responsibilities. Club members who regularly attend meetings and contribute to rocketry projects are more likely to be given leadership positions. Beyond executive leadership positions, members may also be assigned leadership positions for projects and competitions, such as leading the design of a specific part of the rocket or leading a team in a competition. Please note that any behavior that violates the school’s code of conduct or directly hinders the club’s efforts will result in disciplinary action.

What makes this activity unique?:
Rocketry stands out in that it combines various aspects of mechanical engineering, aerospace engineering, and electrical engineering in the attempt to bring a rocket launch to life, and its value can be found in the fact that it integrates hardware with software to create a unified, aerodynamic system. Through development of a rocket, we will be able to better understand the hardware and software that goes into such a contraption, and these lessons can then be applied to other STEM-based skill sets. Currently, there is no club at Stuyvesant dedicated to developing rockets through the application of aspects of engineering design. This club hopes to fill that gap!

