Mission Statement:
STC aims to produce three entirely student-led shows per year, one per season, to foster a love of theater within our school community.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
While STC has three high-commitment seasons (Fall, Winter and Spring), participation in all is not required, and members can choose their level of involvement. Rehearsals and crew meetings are generally held on every school day of a production cycle, which lasts from 4-6 weeks every Fall, Winter and Spring. Before each cycle, there are two weeks of pre-production, including one week during which Cast Directors and Producers are chosen, and one week of auditions/crew recruitments. 2-4 weekend rehearsals are held per show, usually lasting for the length of two or more rehearsals, and taking place on one day of the weekend. For each crew, it is at the discretion of the directors which crew members are needed on certain days, so commitment varies based on crew and role in said crew. While daily rehearsals will usually last around two hours, during each production’s three show days, performers and technical crew members will be expected to stay later into the evenings.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
STC aims to produce three shows per year - a fall musical, winter drama, and spring comedy - to create theater opportunities within Stuyvesant and to foster a love of theater within our community. STC is student-led and welcomes anyone who is interested in theater, providing all members with technical and performance-based opportunities in multiple theatrical areas. Crews include Cast, Band, Stage, Tech, Lights and Sound, Art, Costumes, Props, and many more. In our predominantly STEM-motivated environment, the arts provide an important alternate outlet for expression, and STC is proud to be a home for many creative Stuyvesant students. No experience is needed to join, but members are expected to be dedicated to their crew or crews by consistently attending rehearsals, maintaining academic achievement, demonstrating respect towards leaders and faculty advisors, and being present at shows and clean-up days. STC's home base in the Stuyvesant building is the Murray Kahn Theater and its adjoining Costumes and Tech rooms, and all members are expected to behave well and respect these spaces while working in them. The full Participation Contract can be found athttp://stuytheater.weebly.com/forms.html.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Besides providing the student body with a welcoming space to engage in the world of theater, STC enriches the general Stuyvesant community by offering entertainment at little to no cost to students, teachers, administration, and families. Our three shows run for three nights each, giving Stuyvesant community members ample opportunity to attend each performance. We also offer a variety of leadership positions, whether it be through directing or producing a show or running a technical crew. These experiences help students build skills in leadership and collaboration, which can be applied to future participation in the arts or other areas. STC members are additionally well-equipped to participate in SING!, a non-STC affiliated annual school-wide competition where SophFrosh, Juniors, and Seniors write, produce, and perform their own hourlong musicals. STC also connects students with other theatrical and performance-based opportunities throughout the year, both inside and outside of Stuyvesant. Participating in STC has encouraged members to take part in programs run by organizations such as HBO, Wingspan Arts, New York Theater Workshop, NYU Steinhardt, The Juilliard School, National Children’s Chorus, Brooklyn Youth Chorus, From Home Theater, and many others. On the whole, STC members learn from and teach one another, giving students an essential and vastly different experience from the rest of their school day.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Stuyvesant Theater Community is a student-run organization, so students are the highest authority in all parts of show production, with guidance only from the faculty advisors. STC will be led by Slate, a group of five to six representatives chosen by the previous year’s Slate in the spring to fulfill their duties the following year. Slate will be selected with no external counsel from any party other than the members of Slate. Slate will consist of three Executive Producers, who will oversee the production of each show; a Director of Communications, who will manage social media platforms and advertise events; and one or two Technical Coordinators, who will oversee the technical aspects of each show and the theater in general. The general hierarchy of any STC show is: Executive Producer over Slate over Producers over Cast Directors over Other Directors. For each production, Producers and Cast Directors are chosen by Slate through an application and interview process open to all students who maintain an 85% or above school average and have no failing classes or less than two "needs improvement" classes (a grade-based standard which applies to all STC members). STC members of all levels will also be asked to resign if any egregious behavior is exhibited (reference our STC contract for more details-https://docs.google.com/document/d/1c5tM6jq_TpYVIX6ztLW3zij8L0gMvAGSLVHb8BSmpy4/edit?usp=sharing) For more specifics and any questions, emailstuytheater@gmail.comor visit our website.

What makes this activity unique?:
STC is one of the few performing arts organizations in our STEM-oriented school, fostering a very close-knit environment for our members. Students are provided with an extensive and robust community that has the capacity to put on large productions that are entirely student run. Our organization offers unique opportunities for students to take charge and learn important leadership skills while collaborating with others. Students are responsible for creating a show from only librettos and sheet music, leaving the rest of the creative process up to members of various crews. In comparison to most other high school dramatic organizations, members of STC have much more freedom, as well as responsibility, in all areas of production, allowing them to move onto college or professional organizations with an exceptional level of experience.

