Mission Statement:
Stuy Crow Club is dedicated to building friendship among members through our collective love for reading young adult (YA) books.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We hold meetings once or twice a month, depending on what book we're reading.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Crow Club is for lovers of YA fiction across all genres! YA books are aimed at readers between ages 12 and 18; some of the more well-known contributions to the category include The Hunger Games, Six of Crows, The Hate U Give, and The Fault in Our Stars, among countless others. Stuy Crow Club—named after the notorious gambling hall in Leigh Bardugo’s Six of Crows duology—is the place to be for any and all students looking to have a good time, whether you’re someone striving to make reading a regular part of your life, a long-time YA lover, or someone who wants a friend to freak out with over that book you just finished. Members can vote for a book of the month, which the club then reads as a whole. Throughout that month, members have the option to join a group chat for casual conversations about the book. At the end of the month, members meet up to discuss their overall thoughts on the book, but there are no specific requirements or conditions—you’re free to participate as much or as little as you wish!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will benefit the Stuyvesant community in all the ways that reading has been shown to help individuals, such as increasing empathy, reducing stress, expanding vocabulary, and bettering writing skills. However, YA books are unique in that while they address many challenging social issues, they are also much easier to read than literary classics with the same objective. Although literary fiction can absolutely be enjoyable in its own way, most works under this label are not written with a teenage audience in mind. Stuy Crow Club helps students expand their worldview by reading about experiences as important as those portrayed in literary fiction, but from a teenage perspective, making these experiences much more relatable and understandable. Additionally, Stuy Crow Club allows students to take a break from school-mandated analysis and discussion points by maintaining a casual atmosphere. This helps students to simply enjoy reading for what it is—a way to relax and escape from reality, as well as a way to forge new connections based on shared interests. It’s important to remember that Stuyvesant students are still teenagers, and they deserve to consume fiction that is written about them and for them without having to classify it as a “guilty pleasure.”

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Stuy Crow Club is headed by two co-presidents who work together to choose each month’s book, facilitate discussions at meetings, and maintain outreach. Leaders may alternate months so that each month’s discussion is presided over by one person, but both leaders are expected to participate actively in club matters at all times. If a leader fails to complete their duties, members and/or their fellow leaders may express their concerns either in person or digitally. Every such submission will be counted as a strike against the leader in question; if they receive three strikes, a club meeting will be held. If at least half of the members present vote to impeach, they will be removed from their position. The co-president positions transfer between school years; however, additional positions may be available to any members who demonstrate genuine interest in and dedication to the club. Any interested members are always welcome to approach the co-presidents about possibly being appointed to a leadership position. Current leaders consult with each other about appointments and may choose to ask interested members to submit applications.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Crow Club is unique because it gives students an opportunity to indulge in teen fiction, a hobby that many may deem frivolous (especially in an academically rigorous environment like Stuyvesant), without having to be ashamed of their interests. Additionally, there is no pressure at all to participate in any kind of deep, analytical thinking as a member of this club. Though discussion inspired by such thinking is certainly welcome, the purpose of Stuy Crow Club is to provide Stuyvesant’s bookworms a place to do what they love most without it becoming a literary analysis assignment. Members are free to join in on as many or as few book discussions as they wish. All of this allows for a casual and relaxed club setting that is free from additional academic stressors.

