Mission Statement:
Stuy Go Club introduces students to the fascinating board game Go, as well as its cultural origins and philosophy.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
1-2 meetings a week, depending on how busy the current leadership is.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Go Club serves as a welcoming environment for casual and competitive Go players alike. Go, also known as Baduk (Korean) or Igo (Japanese), is renowned for being a game that's extremely easy to learn but has an exceptionally high skill ceiling, allowing beginners to quickly fit in and learn about a game that may become a passion to pursue for years to come. Stuy Go Club also endeavors to provide all members with the opportunity to participate in competitions and hold an internationally recognized ranking (following the Japanese kyu-dan ranking system). Although Stuy Go Club is low commitment, players are able to play and interact with each other online outside of club meetings, where they can improve and discover new strategies. To participate, the only requirements are respect for fellow players and a willingness to learn. Above all else, Stuy Go Club serves as an environment in which students can relax while engaging in this millennia-old mind sport.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
"""Through Stuy Go Club, students will learn how to play the game that Chess Grandmaster Edward Lasker calls, """"so elegant, organic and rigorously logical that if intelligent life forms exist elsewhere in the universe they almost certainly play [it].""""

Throughout their journey of mastering Go, members will develop their critical thinking, foresight, pattern recognition, and patience, skills of great importance both in the game and in real life. One such application of these skills is in “reading”, or the act of predicting the possible moves your opponent can make, in response to your move(s), which allows you to determine the efficacy of such moves and develop a strategy. In short, reading utilizes critical thinking to analyze the board state, foresight to predict consequences of potential moves, pattern recognition to reach a decision faster, and patience to comb through the responses that an opponent can make.
One of the many fundamental practices of go players is called the “teaching ladder”, where more experienced players teach less experienced players through instruction or by playing games with them. Through the teaching ladder, everyone comes away learning something new. Stuy Go Club hopes to provide a recreational space where Go enthusiasts, casual players, and newcomers alike can end the day playing an engaging board game."""

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
"Leadership roles in Stuy Go Club consist of a President and a Vice President. The following year's President may be selected by the current President.
The Vice President is appointed by the President. All leaders must demonstrate proper understanding of the game and sufficient Go ability such that they are able to bring new members up to speed with the rules and efficient tactics. All leaders are expected to participate in at least 3 meetings per month, save for any excused absences.
Members are expected to respect other members and avoid abusive behavior. In extenuating circumstances, a member may be banned from the club following an unanimous decision by the leaders.
All members have the right to motion for an impeachment of a leader for any of the following: abusive behavior, misconduct, or a clear lack of dedication or ability. The motion to impeach a leader must be agreed upon by a 2/3 majority of members who have participated in Stuy Go Club for at least 2 months. The impeached may remain as a participating member of the club unless specified in the impeachment motion. Following an impeachment, leaders are promoted to the next highest position if possible. "

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Go Club seeks to provide an inclusive community for Go players at Stuyvesant High School. Members will be able to participate in tournaments and competitions to obtain an internationally recognized rank, or just play casual games with other members. Go stands out among the board game crowd with its deceptively simple rules, but takes great lengths to master. Stuy Go Club serves as a platform for aspiring players to accelerate their journey in learning Go.

