Mission Statement:
The BAC is all about spreading the culture and history of the Balkans and forming connections between Balkan and other cultures at Stuy.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet about once or twice a month, typically on Fridays, or on days before large breaks.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
This is a low-commitment club where members will be expected to attend the meetings and will be expected to interact with other members of the club in order to form cultural connections and deepen their understanding of Balkan culture and history. General members are also welcome to create their own lessons on any information they know about the Balkans and present it to the club. Balkan members and general members are also welcome to share their culture, history and traditions since the BAC wants to bridge connections between Balkan culture and the other heritages present at our school. The meetings will typically be online meetings and will held on Fridays every month or so. However, some meetings, such as those before breaks, can be in person and will be treated as a culture party where all are welcome to share stories, food, and traditions with the other members in the club.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The club will benefit the Stuyvesant community by informing people about the forgotten history and culture of the Balkans. It will allow many of the Balkan students at Stuy to participate in their culture and connect with other students who share similar cultures. The BAC will also be open to those who are not Balkan but are interested in learning about their classmates’ backgrounds and heritage. It will form a new community within our school that will let students connect back to their roots, which aren’t as mainstream in NYC and in Stuyvesant. Many Balkan students come from immigrant backgrounds that aren’t as heavily represented as other European cultures. Balkan history isn’t given the attention it deserves in the New York City global curriculum or the AP European History curriculum. The BAC will serve to fill in that gap. Through exploring Balkan foods, celebrations, and history, members of the BAC will be able to learn more about the culture of their fellow members. Not only will this club provide opportunities for students to develop their knowledge of regions around the world, but it will also be an opportunity for them to expand their social life and make new friends here.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions are appointed by having those who wish to run state why and what they would do if they were appointed. We will then host interviews to decide who is the best choice. This process will also be done for transferring leadership in addition to a meeting to officially induct them as leaders. However, if a leader isn't doing their job correctly, i.e not being inclusive, respectful, or accurate in the information they are giving, or if they are being disruptive, they will be given a warning if it is their first offense. If it happens again, or if they are not attending meetings, they will be removed from their position, unable to try to gain it again. The process for another leader will be conducted as soon as possible if this happens.  There is also a marketing/social media management department. Members who wish to join this department can submit an application at the beginning of each semester and will be chosen by the club leaders. The rules and responsibilities of the leaders apply to those with this position as well, and those who abuse or misuse their position, or are not being a respectable member of the club, through conduct, will be stripped from their position as well.

What makes this activity unique?:
Members are expected to attend the meetings regularly. Members are also expected to remain respectful to one another and failure to do so will harm chances of having a leadership position and may even be forced to leave the club. Leaders are also held up to this standard and must uphold the responsibilities of their job. A meeting will be held to discuss their actions and if necessary, will be forced to step down from their position and will be replaced with someone new. Depending on the reason for their removal, the previous leader can remain a member of the club but have their responsibilities and role revoked.

