Mission Statement:
Nutriderms aims to create a fun and safe space for learning about nutrition and its impact on the skin.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule may vary throughout the year, but we plan to hold an in person meeting at least once a month to foster closer relationships between the members. We will also hold virtual meetings on Zoom every Monday or Tuesday depending on member availability so that we could discuss ideas for the infographics/videos/articles and future fundraisers.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Nutriderms aims to create a fun environment for students interested in learning more about dermatology and nutrition. Its members will brainstorm ideas and conduct research on the effects of different foods on the skin. Through the weekly questionnaires and interactive posts on social media, the club will also answer specific questions that members of the school community may have. These can range from general questions about academics to questions specifically about a skin concern. However, in order to create such a platform for students to express their concerns and make healthier decisions, general members must be active participants in creating the infographics. Attending weekly meetings is mandatory! This year, we’ve also decided to expand the club to include fundraisers throughout the school year. Through holding bake sales, the club members will raise money for foundations aimed at addressing concerns in dermatology and nutrition. This club will have a place for anyone, with many different positions such as researchers, graphic designers, social media managers, and the treasurer. If, for any reason, members are unable to attend, they should contact the leaders beforehand. There will be a shared document between all of the members which contains meeting information and brainstorming.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Nutriderms gives Stuyvesant students an opportunity to learn about the fields of dermatology and nutrition which are often neglected when thinking about medicine as a possible career path. Even for those who find out that they may not be interested in pursuing a path in medicine, there is a lot to be taken away. First, our club creates a fun environment for students to make new connections as you’ll be able to find others with common interests as you. Students who join this club are also given an opportunity to practice researching, speaking, and collaboration skills which are necessary for a student’s success here at Stuyvesant High School. It does this in a stake-free environment, giving students who are more shy an opportunity to speak about topics they are interested in. Second, it raises awareness for pressing societal issues. Through holding bake sales, the club hopes to raise money for charity foundations that the club members decide on. Lastly, the information that we obtain through research about dermatology and nutrition can be applied to better our own lifestyles, making great impacts on our choices in diet and skincare. For anyone interested in this club, there is no experience required so we can all learn and grow together.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Currently, there are five leadership positions in the club: the Social Media Manager, the Graphic Designers, the Lead Researcher, and the Activities Manager, and the Treasurer. With the exception of the Graphic Designers, each leadership position will only have one slot. The Social Media Manager is responsible for managing Nutriderms’s Instagram account in order to promote the club and interact with followers. They will be in charge of posting weekly questionnaires on Instagram, collecting data on any questions that people may want to be addressed in future infographics/videos/articles. The Social Media Manager will work closely with the Graphic Designers who will assist in creating graphics for posts and stories. The Graphic Designers will also be in charge of using the research compiled by the general members to create visually appealing infographics for the public to view. The Lead Researcher will communicate with members of Nutriderms, discussing certain foods the members may want to focus researching on for the weekly infographics. The Activities Manager will be in charge of organizing the fundraisers and reserving the rooms for meetings. The Treasurer will be in charge of communicating with the school for Club Funding and donating the funds raised by the bake sales to charities. Those interested in taking on leadership positions can apply through google form which will be sent out to its members and be available on the StuyActivities page at the start of each term. The applications will be reviewed by the leaders of the club, and because no prior experience is needed, as long as you express an interest and dedication to the club, you will most likely be able to get a leadership position. However, failure to complete what is expected of them as listed above (which also includes attending the mandatory weekly meetings) will result in a strike. After three strikes, the President and other leaders will replace the student with another individual interested in the leadership role. (Those who join the club but do not want to take on a leadership position can choose to become either a researcher or a graphic designer for the infographics).

What makes this activity unique?:
What makes this club unique is that it is the only club in the school that centers itself around dermatology which is a growing field in our modern world. It also makes dermatology more accessible as the weekly infographics/videos/articles will be available on Instagram, a social media platform that youth spend much of their free time on. Thus, even for those not willing to necessarily dedicate themselves to the club, they can also benefit from this club by asking questions that they want the content to address, thereby fostering a safe space for students to get to know each other and learn.

