Mission Statement:
Chill Pill aims to foster a judgment-free safe space for students to share their experiences whilst addressing and learning about mental health.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Chill Pill aims to meet 3 times a month, but it is flexible depending on members’ availability. For now, these meetings will be held both in person or virtually through zoom, and the type will be decided based on availability as well. In-person meetings are aimed to be held at 3:50 pm and virtual meetings at later in the day, like 6 pm, to ensure our members can get home without any feelings of being rushed.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Chill Pill strives to cultivate an inclusive, non-judgemental zone for students, regardless of gender, grade, or interests, to share experiences and feelings with other peers, all while discussing and shedding light on the importance of mental health and its implications. This community aims to provide young individuals with a safe space to simply be themselves, outside of their roles as students, athletes, or other identities. While ChillPill fosters one’s individuality by strengthening one’s connection with their own life experiences and emotions, our open-discussion support groups serve to tackle issues students face in a group setting, where members are seen simply as those who relate to and can help one another. Students can seek help, friendships, or simply a platform to vent whilst learning and improving from peers sharing similar experiences. ChillPill also has an anonymity aspect where support groups may be audio-only or with cameras off, as opening up can be extremely nerve-wracking, and removing that wall takes time. 

Especially as mental health is such an important topic in the education system, Chill Pill aims not just to be a space for students to recognize and improve their own mindsets with the help of other students, but also a learning environment where students can expand their knowledge on mental health and mental illness. Chill Pill strives to shed more awareness on mental health as a whole, educating bright, young students on what mental health, an umbrella term ranging from mental illness to everyday emotions, encompasses. Chill Pill addresses stigmatized and taboo topics of individuals and society as a whole, aiming to broaden members’ horizons as they share their own struggles and stories with one another. Through open-discussion support meetings tackling topics like seeking academic validation and struggling with disorganization/procrastination, guest speaker events with professional therapists, mental health advocates, and social media creators, and self-care and wellness events as a hands-on experience cultivating friendships and relationships after a long day at school. Chill Pill continues its mission at the Stuyvesant High School branch as their saying goes: “Come One, Come All”.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Chill Pill personally addresses issues of mental health directly back to the Stuyvesant community itself, as topics of discussion meetings are tailored to what students currently are struggling with or want to learn more about for the future. Especially at a school as academically rigorous and driven as Stuyvesant, Chill Pill is a space for students to cry, laugh, comfort, and most importantly, listen, help, and learn from one another. Through our club, we hope to foster a sense of community by allowing students to be their most authentic selves as they share their own experiences and learn more about the topic of mental health that looms over them daily. As many students often feel uncomfortable sharing the obstacles they face and struggle with mental health, ChillPill strives to encourage vulnerability in forming genuine connections. 

Because the Chill Pill community discusses various societal issues like body image and familial relationships as well as individual feelings and struggles like planning ahead, feeling lonely, and having test anxiety, this club ensures that a wide variety of topics are accounted for. Chill Pill allows everyone’s voices to be heard as we take students on a learning journey of discovering and taking of their own mental health, as well as becoming more aware of those around them as they lend support to others. Such discussions and lessons strengthen students’ mindsets and wellbeings as they continue in both their personal and academic lives at Stuyvesant and beyond. Chill Pill nurtures students’ mental health so they can freely pursue their hopes and dreams knowing this community exists to always support and listen to them. It is only when one’s mental health is addressed and supported that their journey at Stuyvesant is maximized to its greatest potential.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Chillpill’s leadership positions compose of a president, vice president, social media manager, secretary, and events coordinator(s), which make up the board. As of right now, the founders will be the president and vice president, but applications will be sent out in the beginning of the semester for those interested in the other positions, and interviews may follow. Leadership positions are given to people who can demonstrate dedication and commitment to the club. Anyone can apply but priority will be given to those who demonstrate interest, effort, and leadership skills. For specific protocols, pronouns must be respected and everyone must be respectful and welcoming to one another; especially when personal experiences are being shared in discussions, it is mandatory that everyone acts appropriately. If there is an instance where a member feels uncomfortable, they can speak to any of the board members and we will take action accordingly.
 Presidents and vice presidents hold their position until they graduate or until they are impeached. However, the rest of the leaders can change every year as there will be applications for a social media manager, secretary, and event coordinator(s) every 2 semesters; current position holders can reapply. Leaders who receive three strikes will be impeached. Some acts that warrant a strike include but are not limited to rudeness, racism, discrimination, sexism, inactivity, unexcused absences, etc. When founders graduate or are impeached, in the months prior, applications will be sent out to select the president and vice president-in-training. Selected candidates will move on to interviews and then the final round, where members of ChillPill personally vote for the individuals; these votes are taken into account when the current presidents make their decision.

What makes this activity unique?:
ChillPill is one of the only clubs that focus on students’ individual mental health while simultaneously broadening their knowledge surrounding mental health and its effects and application. This community is open to everyone, not just those suffering from mental health issues, as everyone has feelings and obstacles they wish to share and overcome. We aim to educate about mental health while also supporting those either struggling with mental health or just looking for a judgment-free community to share their feelings and experiences with like-minded individuals. Unlike other clubs focusing on a specific hobby or passion that members enjoy, Chill Pill strives to be a club that comforts its members so they can pursue what they love and thrive whilst at Stuyvesant. In addition to regular meetings, either virtual or in-person, ChillPill also has other applications for those who may not be able to make it, or who want to be in ChillPill casually; ChillPill offers an app that helps you find new friends in an anonymous audio-only support group where everyone is welcome, worthy, and valid in discussing their mental health, as well as wellness and bonding events to find other like-minded individuals and be of support to one another, all while learning more about mental health, one of the most pressing topics in our society today.

