Mission Statement:
StuyCrochet strives to teach the art of crocheting to help those interested find a new hobby.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings for StuyCrochet will most likely be three times a month on Tuesdays or Wednesdays.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyCrochet wants to help others interested in crocheting find enjoyment in it. Crocheting involves using a crochet hook and yarn to create something, whether that be blankets, bags, stuffed animals, or clothing. StuyCrochet will host one meeting a week where the club's leaders will demonstrate how to make a new crochet project. Creation of a crochet project may last more than one meeting depending on what's being made. The club would like to teach not only the basics of crocheting to any club member with even a slight interest in learning, but also make unique crafts. The club will teach in a simple manner that makes crocheting beginner-friendly. The hope is that members of this club will find a new hobby to enjoy and continue to craft and create through crocheting. The process of crocheting is very relaxing in itself, added to that is the fact that members will have created something they can be happy about.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyCrochet would like to create a comfortable and peaceful community to those who like crocheting. Members can crochet by themselves without interruption, or they can talk. The purpose is that members will have time to enjoy a relaxing hobby they have or learn to crochet. The club would like to help beginners get through learning the very basics to make crocheting easier on them. Leaders of StuyCrochet will help to make crocheting seem less intimidating as a hobby. Crocheting is a useful skill as when members know the basics, StuyCrochet's members can make whatever they like. The club will go over a variety of crochet projects that members can enjoy, though club members are allowed to not make these projects and instead make something else they like. The club is a place where creativity of crocheting is welcomed. Students who join will find that the club is a fun place where they can destress from their lives. Members will also hopefully find a sense of fulfillment for every project they crochet. Whether members finish every crochet project or not, the possibilities of what can be created are endless. Crocheting is a comfortable hobby that StuyCrochet would like others to enjoy if others would be interested.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions involve a president and vice presidents. The president or vice presidents must be present at every meeting to teach crocheting. They will be picked based on dedication and passion, as well as their ability to explain the process of crocheting. Members who would like the opportunity to be the club's leaders after the present leaders leave are expected to email an explanation about why they want to be club leader and what makes them qualified for the position to both the current president and vice president. Members are expected to be respectful to everyone else in the club. If three members complain about a valid issue with the president, that president will be deemed ill fit for the position and given a month to improve under supervision of the vice presidents. If the problem still persists, that president will be permanently terminated, and a vice president will become the new president. If more than three members complain about a valid problem with the president, that president will be permanently terminated immediately without the supervised month for improvement.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyCrochet is the only club that specializes in teaching crocheting to its members. Members of StuyCrochet will create many fun and interesting crocheted items during their time in the club. StuyCrochet's leaders are very determined and passionate about this club and making this club as friendly as it can possibly be. The club strives to build a healthy community for those who share crocheting as a hobby or are beginners looking to learn a new hobby.

