Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant chapter of the ACLU, which connects students with resources and opportunities to further our mission of creating a more equal society.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
1-2 meetings per month, generally with an informational lecture/presentation on a given issue followed by an activism opportunity (phone banking, protesting, outreach, etc.) each month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of the Stuyvesant chapter of the ACLU is to provide students with a greater understanding of the issues facing our society and an opportunity to engage in meaningful activism to combat them. The ACLU at Stuy partners directly with the national office of the ACLU and the local NYCLU to get resources for students to learn about and work with issues they care about most. Each month, the ACLU at Stuy chooses a different issue that it finds to be most pressing/important, and works with the ACLU and NYCLU to help them with their ongoing work with the issue, as well as to work on activism internally at Stuy, especially on issues surrounding education and schools. The organization also brings in speakers and coordinates events to educate the wider student body about ACLU’s work and the issues plaguing our communities. The ACLU at Stuy is a great opportunity for any student looking to become more politically informed and involved.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The ACLU at Stuy will benefit the Stuyvesant community by not only educating students about pressing issues in our country, but also by teaching students how to get involved and be politically active within their own communities. The ACLU at Stuy serves to educate students on how civil liberties are being impacted in our society and how they differ from state to state and country to country. Students will also be able to explore topics they care about most and find ways to engage with these issues, through modes of activism including phone banking, protesting, and email/letter writing. Protesting and other forms of activism are at the forefront of effectuating change, and exploring and participating in ways to help would be an important aspect of this club for students. The ACLU at Stuy is affiliated with the New York City affiliate of the ACLU (the NYCLU), as well as the ACLU’s national office. These connections allow students to learn more about happenings and opportunities for activism within their own communities, as well as the greater initiatives and work of the ACLU and its affiliates. Much of Stuyvesant’s student body is politically active and with some students being able to vote, learning about these defining topics of our generation will be instrumental in being an educated voter and providing tangible, meaningful change.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The president is appointed by the former president at the end of each year. The president serves until they graduate and chooses other members of the ACLU at Stuy to serve in administrative roles, the titles, and responsibilities of which are decided by presidents and vary year-to-year. The president’s role includes creating and appointing positions, organizing and running meetings, corresponding with the ACLU and NYCLU to further our partnership, outreach to the organization, and coordinating opportunities for activism both within and outside of the ACLU at Stuy, among other responsibilities. In the case of incompetence or widespread disapproval of the president, with the approval of the Faculty Advisor, a live vote may be held among the members, and a ¾ majority is required for impeachment. If the president is successfully impeached, a new president, chosen from the existing leadership team, will be voted on by a majority vote of the club members.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club is unique because Stuyvesant currently does not have an ACLU chapter, so the ACLU at Stuy specializes in the ACLU and NYCLU’s main issues, unlike other political clubs at Stuy. In direct affiliation with the ACLU and NYCLU, the ACLU at Stuy has connections to and receives resources from the official national and local offices. No other club at Stuy offers both the chance to become educated about real-world issues and the opportunity for activism regarding them.

