Mission Statement:
Stuy Survey Services aims to uncover the opinions of the student body through periodic surveys on a diverse range of topics.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
As a low commitment club, we will host about three meetings a month, with a new survey being a topic of every meeting. During exam season, there will be up to two meetings per month instead. Meetings will be relatively short, thirty to forty-five minutes. Meetings will be in person, usually on the fourth floor.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
How many hours of sleep does the average Stuy student get? Ferry’s or Terry’s? [insert interesting question here]? Stuy Survey Services (SSS) will host polls/surveys like these to expose the nature of the student body and publish them on various outlets. 

In this club, those curious about the thoughts of the school community, or polling in general, can gather in an open environment to pose topics for surveys, gather responses in person, and analyze the data gathered. On the way, members will discover different ways to host surveys, techniques for analysis, and formats for displaying their findings. 

This club intends to host surveys for their own curiosity, as well as connect with other student-run organizations to poll on their behalf. Not all of our findings will be published, but we plan to hold at least three polls every month. 

Members can suggest poll topics ranging from the silly to the serious, as long as it furthers our understanding of the student body.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will benefit the Stuyvesant community by polling about various subjects and publishing these results on different media platforms in hopes of bringing unspoken issues to light or just giving people something to laugh about. Additionally, the club will branch out to other student organizations to survey the student body for them, which creates another avenue for ambitious but underrepresented clubs to project themselves. 

Members will be introduced to useful technical skills that can be applied to various different fields. For example, members will learn how to carry out different kinds of polls in an efficient and unbiased manner, how to process the results with a selection of different techniques, how to draw accurate conclusions, and how to present their findings in a way that would attract the attention of different audiences. This club will also demonstrate publishing ethics so that students can critically evaluate the impact of their findings before bringing it to the masses. By doing so, we can prevent any damages to our club and any associated individuals/organizations.

We will use these skills throughout the year to answer questions that members may have about Stuyvesant’s populace, satisfying their curiosity and making them feel more connected to their fellow students.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership Positions: 2 co-presidents, 1 vice president.
Co-presidents make the big decisions in the club, such as what each meeting is going to be about and what student organizations to branch out to. They also serve as the public face of the club, so at least one co-president must be responsible for outreach and posting survey results. Co-presidents are responsible for moderating and announcing survey questions that are voted on by members.

Vice president serves as an advisor to the co-presidents, as well as make lessons and decide with the co-presidents what the subject of the week’s poll will be. They also do any other tasks not covered by the Co-presidents or any other positions.

There must be at least two leaders in a meeting.

Appointment Procedures:
When a Co-president or Vice President decides to or is going to retire, they should appoint a club member that is at least one grade level below the eldest co-president to take their place for the next school year. Once they have made their choice, they then must have their pick confirmed by the other leaders. Club members are chosen based on their commitment and contributions to the club and ability to juggle the tasks of their respective positions.

Impeachment Procedures:
If a majority of club members do not approve of a co-president’s or vice president’s behavior, they can vote that leader out of office. Once that happens, the members may then choose a candidate, who then must be approved by the other two leaders to occupy that position.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Survey Services focuses primarily on statistics and data analysis due to its emphasis on polling and processing the aggregate responses. We will engage members while doing so, teaching them vital skills in these subjects that then will be applied to real world scenarios. 

Instead of limiting ourselves to our club members, we also branch out to the wider Stuyvesant community by holding surveys to members of the school, collaborating with other clubs, as well as publish our results for anyone in Stuyvesant to freely view.

