Mission Statement:
The Native American, Hawaiian and Alaskan (NAHA) Speakers club serves to build an inclusive environment for indigenous students and allies to gather.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings will be on the first Tuesday of each month and ad hoc meetings will occur as speakers and presenters are made available.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Native American, Hawaiian and Alaskan (NAHA) Speakers club is dedicated to educating and promoting Indigenous culture through storytelling, research and engagement. Housekeeping meetings will occur on the first Tuesday of each month, and there will also be multiple ad hoc meetings as well. Ad hoc meetings are not mandatory, but attendance is highly encouraged as we will occasionally have guest speakers presenting. Club members will plan a different activity for each meeting, with the goal of exposing and introducing members to different cultures and traditions of the Native American, Hawaiian and Alaskan peoples. Activities include joining zoom meetings with speakers, playing Kahoots, review of cultural sites, and watching films about native communities. Members are encouraged to come and be ready to listen and learn about historical figures and the importance of Indigenous People’s Day and other holidays honoring the lives and struggles of Indigenous peoples. It is also recommended to participate in our other activities as well. The NAHA club values its members’ input, and encourages members to collaborate with leadership to plan future events. Using these methods, the NAHA club spreads awareness among Indigenous and non-Indigenous students across various communities in order to improve the experiences of Indigenous students at Stuyvesant.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The NAHA club is dedicated to creating a safe and welcoming environment for Indigenous students and those who want to support the Indigenous community. The Indigenous community at Stuyvesant is very small, and the NAHA club understands the importance for there to be a space for students who identify as Indigenous. Members have the chance to meet other people in Stuy who have similar cultural heritage, and bond over shared traditions, pastimes, and experiences. In addition to bonding over our shared cultural heritage, some meetings are designated for learning about the pre- and post-colonial history of the Americas. This will be especially helpful for history AP exams and classes, such as US history and AP World. Many people in the Stuyvesant community will benefit from this as they can learn more about the people and the communities in the American continents before them both inside and outside of the classroom. Members of the NAHA club will also be able to stay updated about current events regarding Indigenous people, such as concerns over reservations, wildlife, and sustainability. Ultimately, our goal is to serve as a safe and welcoming space for Indigenous people at Stuyvesant while educating people about the Native American, Hawaiian and Alaskan communities.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
At the end of the President’s senior year, there will be an application for the new President. The selected President will choose the future Vice President(s). Vice Presidents are responsible for helping the President with tasks as assigned. They may also choose to create additional leadership positions when necessary. Those in leadership roles are responsible for planning events, running the meetings and marking down attendance. If at any point the majority of the members believe new leadership is needed, then they can discuss with others in leadership positions to decide a succession plan. All members of the NAHA club must engage in respectful conversations during the meetings. In order to be voted into a position of leadership, interested members must have attended at least half of the meetings throughout the year and be ready to commit to all of the aforementioned responsibilities. By being an active member in this club, you are likely to receive a leadership position.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club is dedicated to creating a welcoming place for Indigenous people of Native American, Native Hawaiian or Native Alaskan descent and their allies. While our population of students is among the smallest at Stuyvesant, we are a club with high aspirations of educating our peers on our history, traditions and cultures. We encourage everyone to stop by in order to learn about the people who were here before America’s founding, their many ways of life, and their current struggles.

