Mission Statement:
To make art accessible for Stuyvesant students.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
To be determined based on the availability of club members.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
In the ethnically diverse community of Stuyvesant, and of New York City, it is time to embrace the art forms that may seem “out of the box.” The Stuyvesant Art Immersion Project wants to break boundaries in terms of who likes what, transgressing typical norms or tendencies. We plan to recognize and explore more mainstream art forms as well, but using a variety of perspectives and focusing on their backgrounds. The central goal is to dissipate ignorance and provide a greater nuance to the arts we present. To achieve this most effectively, we aim to let those who are most inspired by these arts tell their stories, as well as the story of the art form - real artists. This club will organize monthly lecture-demonstrations, each time featuring a different artist(s) and art form. In order to portray as complete a picture as possible, artist presentations will adopt a half explanatory, half demonstration format. The lecture portion of the session presents the historical and current significance of the art form, and the demonstration portion exclusively showcases the art. The artistic unknown often has a significant historical context and rich culture associated with it. To experience unique arts and understand their power are universal learning experiences, and, further, taking inspiration from different modes of expression is a life-long tool. Featured art styles would include, but not be limited to, live dance, music, visual arts, and multimedia.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Historically, Stuyvesant has been known for academic rigor and academic opportunities that benefit the students that attend the school. We want to build on these fundamental ideas of a Stuyvesant education. Rather than stop at academic excellence, the project will add inspiration from art and self-expression through art as skills students can use for the rest of their lives. Its core values of unconventionality and open-minded thinking are key to an artistic education, and access to “out of the box” demonstrations allow students to choose and remember what resonates with them. To do this, the club will have to break the barriers that hold students back from exposure to arts and culture: the lack of accessible art demonstrations, as a result of factors such as cost or location. We will coordinate an effort to bring the most credited guest speakers and engaging, well curated presentations of their respective art to Stuyvesant for free. In our efforts, this club will promote an attitude of self-advocacy and reject quantification of artistic realization. This does not only apply to club members, but represents the concept we want to bring to the entire student body. To access the whole school, the personal connections club members have to the arts are vital. We hope to build a diverse network of students, and thus bring a diverse set of artists to Stuyvesant. This club will present an opportunity to both share art and to break preconceived notions about various art forms. Again, artistic immersion begins with learning and exploring the unknown.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The club will be structured more like a community project and less like a discussion group. This is because the club exists to work towards events that will be open to all Stuyvesant students (and faculty), not just club members. Positions for secondary leaders will be strategically designed by the president and vice-president so that the club can most effectively orchestrate artist demonstrations and carry out associated work. Major sectors of work are artist outreach and coordination with school administration. Seeing as the administrative function of the club is integral to its impact within the Stuyvesant community, selecting impactful leaders in all facets of the club’s operation is essential. Those who wish to be considered for administrative positions must be passionate, hardworking, open to learning, and demonstrate their commitment towards the club’s goals. Monthly feedback forms will be sent out, including a space to report a strike against a leader if they are not completing their duties. Three strikes, and the agreement of sixty-five percent of club members will result in impeachment. When the positions of president and vice-president become available, members will participate in choosing suitable replacements. We will prioritize the continued existence of the club and its practices for years to come when electing new leaders.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Stuyvesant Artistic Immersion Project will implement a community project unlike any previous effort at Stuyvesant. Its mission is to add depth to the learning experience at Stuyvesant, and simultaneously promote a fuller understanding of the arts we spotlight. In order to achieve transformation in these areas, this club aims big. We target the entire Stuyvesant community, and we utilize outreach and collaboration with the most credited external sources. We believe that learning from art and its power are transformative experiences for all students, and aim to unite students with passion for the arts. And because it is understanding that we are after, maintaining the integrity of the art forms we bring to Stuyvesant is very important to us. We want to paint the full picture. Unlike other clubs at Stuyvesant that focus on sharing art through the lens of culture, we want to learn about cultural context through the lens of art. We intentionally use this approach, with the goal that nuances other than culture will be illuminated. In addition, our program structure intentionally uses spoken lectures and actual demonstrations in conjunction so that students can understand the context of the art form, then view it firsthand, hopefully with a new perspective or a more stimulated mind.

