Mission Statement:
Promoting and accelerating the transition to environmentally-friendly transportation, through the hobby/sport of bicycles and cycling.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Thursday, Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
StuyBicycle will typically meet around about a couple of times each month. Members are encouraged to attend all meetings. We expect members to show their interest in the hobby and sport of cycling, contributing and cooperating with the club. Nonetheless, it is understandable that not everyone may have the time. Meetings will be hosted on Tuesdays, Thursdays or Fridays.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The StuyBike focuses on the hobby of biking that many people may share. It will focus on and talk about the different strategies/tactics to approach cycling and bikes. Members will learn many different types and styles of biking, as well as how to ride efficiently and effectively if they aren’t already familiar. We will also study the various lessons/virtues that can be taken away from biking. For there is a lot that can be said even from the simple action of how to maintain balance. On the other hand, StuyBike will also look to promote the use of green/clean means of transportation that don't pollute the environment. One of which will of course include cycling. This way, students can not only learn about their hobby/sport of biking but also how they can use those interests to help build a cleaner world that helps in solving global warming too. Generally, we expect club members to be engaged in their passion as well as the different causes that we represent. Also, being enthusiastic about the activities that we do together as a club. It is not expected that everybody shows up all the time as it is understandable that people have different schedules and workloads. However, everyone, being a part of this club, should offer some commitment and contributions to their hobby.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyBike aims to connect fellow bike lovers in Stuyvesant High School while promoting cycling among all fellow schoolmates. On the base level, we hold weekly sessions to discuss biking experiences and plan tours from the streets of Manhattan all the way to the rocky terrain of the blue mountains. We hope to spread knowledge on bicycles and also provide an opportunity for club members to meet others who share the same passion. During the meetings, we will also try to create reviews on different bikeways, which we will post all the content generated on our website to serve fellow bikers. On top of that, we spend time informing others about the benefits of cycling, both physically and mentally. By doing so, we hope to spread biking into all parts of our community. Furthermore, we participate in bicycle marathons like the Bike NY NYC TD Five Boro Bike Tour held each year. These competitions allow members to build a stronger sense of teamwork and persistence. We will also host a bicycle designing contest yearly, during these contests, participants are asked to design their own bikes. By doing all of these, we hope to promote our members to ride bicycles in a more meaningful and joyful way.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
StuyBike is divided up into 6 main departments each operated by a director. The 6 departments are: Field, Eco-portation, Art of Biking, Research and Planning, Marketing, and Communications. 

Field department is responsible for hosting and planning biking events. These events include, but are not limited to bike rides and competition. 

Eco-portation department aims to promote, petition and accelerate the transition to environmentally friendly transportation.

Art of Biking department is in charge of teaching biking techniques, sharing insights into the various mechanisms of bikes, and assisting members to plan their bike rides. 

Research and planning department handles the conceptual and logistical foundation of the club by providing research and coordinating events for departments.  

Marketing department will focus on advertising our club and activities inside and outside school. 

Communication department focuses on outreaching our club objectives with other organizations with similar objectives for future cooperation. 

Everyone will all be in the Field Department and the Art of Biking Departments. Members are welcome to join and contribute to the other departments. 

Impeachment of club leaders (administrators/officers) will be carried out if they fail to fulfill their tasks.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyBike draws attention to the benefits of using a bicycle as an easy, affordable, clean and environmentally sustainable means of transport. Bicycles help clean the air, reduce congestion, and make education, healthcare, and other social services more accessible to the most vulnerable. A sustainable transport system that promotes economic growth, reduces inequality, and strengthens the response to climate change is critical to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. We promote the organization of cycling events to enhance physical and mental health and create a cycling culture in society.

