Mission Statement:
Here, you'll find passionate readers, wholesome evenings, and captivating biweekly discussions on a variety of books!

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, but we will attempt to meet biweekly.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The idea for our book club was born from a common sentiment: “I wish I had someone to talk to about this book I just read!” The club’s purpose is to provide that community for passionate readers at Stuy, as well as create a sense of belonging. That will be done primarily through biweekly discussions on books in a range of genres. Another purpose Book Club serves is offering a time and place to unwind during the hectic school year, as reading can offer great benefits that Stuy students tend to neglect in their day to day grind. However, being that there a new book every month and it is not necessary to come to the biweekly meetings, this is a low commitment club and won’t eat up your time, aside from reading ahead of time. Along with discussing the books themselves, we will have watch parties about adaptations of the books we read! Our ultimate goal for the Stuyvesant Book Club is to simply have a good time as we delve deeper into understanding both the books we read and ourselves through discussion.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will benefit Stuyvesant in a multitude of ways. For one, the number of benefits that come from reading are endless: cultural sensitivity, learning about a number of different subjects, developing empathy and human decency, and a larger vocabulary to pull from. But in addition to giving people an incentive (and in turn, all those benefits) to read, Book Club grants them an escape— an incentive to read something other than textbooks, to not feel the weight of responsibility or the pressure of a grade looming over them when picking a piece of literature. It grants them the chance to make friends, to interact with others with similar interests, and a chance for freedom of discussion. It grants them the authority to make decisions and a chance for freedom. Book Club is a chance to bring together people from various groups and from all over Stuyvesant. It also brings about very important discussions, not only about social issues (racism, sexism, homophobia), but also about the relevance of literature in our current society, the evolution of language, and how varying forms of media are taking over. Also: what defines a novel, what makes it well-written or a game-changer? Or on the flipside, a terrible novel and what are the characteristics that make it so.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Because Stuy Book Club is a community-driven club, the leaders trust one another to be truthful and clear about everything related to the matters of this club. If there ever comes a point where a leader of the club becomes inactive or irresponsible, it is upon the other leaders to recognize when it's time to end the deal. It is imperative that all leaders of the club are punctual and prepared all if not almost all of the time. If they can’t make it to a meeting, they must let the others know at least a day in advance. As it stands now, the leaders are currently under agreement that we will be communicative and dedicated, and if the time arises that this agreement is being undermined or ignored, the proper impeachment procedure will follow. Additionally, any form of disrespect or intolerance displayed both during or outside of meetings won’t be tolerated. In terms of appointing future leaders once current ones graduate or are no longer able to lead, there will be a fair application process available to all that are interested.

What makes this activity unique?:
For one, the freedom. It's easy to say that book club is essentially a second English class, but that's not true at all! What this club does that differs from the English department is allow freedom in all aspects. The leaders come prepared to lead discussions based on main points in the books and questions they feel are important, but the discussion is really left to the club members and is essentially led by them! A deeper meaning isn't required and participating in discussions isn't obligated! If people are interested in simply an incentive to read and an organization that welcomes ideas and lovers of literature, then that's exactly what they're receiving.

