Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Biomedical Engineering (BME) fosters an environment for students to explore specialty areas within and gain hands-on application of BME.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, but we meet at least once a month. When we are working on a large project, meetings will be more frequent, ranging from 1-2 times a week. Most lessons will be held online, most guest speaker events will be held in-person, and large projects must be done in-person.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Biomedical Engineering seeks to educate on all the different disciplines that make up biomedical engineering, which include radiology, computational biology, drug treatments, and prosthetics. The content of each meeting will vary depending on the speciality area being focused on during a specific time period. The club will consist of lessons on biomedical subtopics, which will be done by club presidents and members that volunteer to create a presentation. There will be occasional guest speaker events—that are open to anyone—hosted by doctors and professionals within the field, including radiologists and pharmacists. Large projects throughout the year will involve hands-on application of engineering, such as collaborating with related Stuyvesant clubs to use Computer Aided Design and 3D printers to create free prosthetic attachments for hospitals and clinics. We aim to create a safe space for students to explore and dive deeper into different academic disciplines within biomedical engineering, while providing opportunities for students to collaborate to produce projects that can be applied to real life issues.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant Biomedical Engineering will bring a multitude of benefits to the Stuyvesant community by fostering an environment of collaboration and connection. The speaker events organized by the club will offer a unique opportunity for students to gain insight from professionals in their potential fields of interest. The chance to interact with experts provides a firsthand understanding of prospective career paths, allowing students to ask questions, seek advice, and broaden their perspectives. Members are also encouraged to volunteer to create presentations and teach other members about a subtopic within biomedical engineering that they are interested in. Presenting will allow them to improve their public speaking skills and spread knowledge about something they’re passionate about. The emphasis on teamwork projects within the club generates a valuable learning environment. The collaboration between students interested in biology and those interested in engineering allows for the exchange of ideas and an enriched understanding of each other’s fields of interest. Additionally, creating free prosthetics adds a profound sense of community to the club’s activities. By contributing to children’s hospitals and clinics, club members can directly impact their local community in a meaningful and tangible way, which in turn provides them with a fun and rewarding experience. Stuyvesant Biomedical Engineering will serve as a platform for like-minded individuals to bond. By bringing together students with similar interests, the club creates a supportive community that fosters friendships, shared passions, and a network of peers who can collaborate on various projects. Furthermore, members have the opportunity to work together with different related clubs, further enriching their experience.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
As of now, we have a president and a vice president, but as the school year progresses other leadership positions may open if necessary. Dedicated members can volunteer to create presentations on certain topics, and if a member would like to become the director of lessons, they may propose that position to the president or vice president. When the president or vice president graduate or get impeached, new written applications will be sent out to all current non-senior club members. After written applications are reviewed and applicants are narrowed down, informal interviews will be conducted in order to finalize leadership decisions. Previous contributions, collaboration skills, and demonstrated interest in the club will be assessed and considered when choosing successors. If any members are discriminatory on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, national origin, gender, sex, sexual orientation, disability, age, or any other such factors, they will be removed from the club. Any actions that intentionally harm the club’s progress will result in a strike. As our club typically only meets once a month, we expect our members to be able to come to at least 4 meetings a semester to truly engage in the club, unless they have a valid reason for absence. If they fail to reach this requirement, they will be given one strike. If a member obtains 2 strikes, they will be removed from the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant Biomedical Engineering not only expands on two popular fields—medicine and engineering—but combines the two in order to create solutions and teach students about niche subtopics within this larger field. Through lessons and guest speaker events, we go over how one can combine their passion for mechanical or computer science with an interest in biology or pharmaceutical works, or vice versa, to be applied in the real world which is something that we have not seen in pre-established Stuyvesant clubs.

