Mission Statement:
Stuy Puzzlehunts aims to create a fun and inclusive environment to write and solve puzzles, as well as compete in puzzlehunts.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
This club will meet approximately once every two weeks throughout the school year. During official Puzzle Hunt competitions, more meetings will be hosted for members to participate in.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Puzzlehunts is a club dedicated to puzzlehunts. From the most basic identification puzzles to more complex meta puzzles, members will learn how to solve a puzzle from beginning to end. Meetings will be held in person once every 1-2 weeks, and while there will be lessons at the beginning for basics, most meetings will consist of practice puzzles, some of which may span multiple meetings. When official puzzlehunts are hosted, teams will be formed to compete, allowing members to get to know each other better. While participation in these puzzlehunts is optional, it is highly recommended as it is a really fun way to destress. For these, there will be additional meetings, but the times are flexible. Moreover, there will be collaborations with other clubs to publicize puzzlehunting further. Ergo, members will work with each other to write puzzles, with the ultimate goal of creating a puzzlehunt of their own.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Solving puzzles is an activity that has been shown to have a variety of benefits. It helps improve mood and decrease stress by increasing the brain’s production of dopamine. This is perfect for relaxing in an interesting and productive way after an exam or exhausting day. Puzzles are also great for the brain as they reinforce connections between brain cells, boost memory, increase attention to detail, and improve mental speed. In addition to this, it helps with problem-solving skills which are needed every day. Moreover, Stuyvesant students can solve puzzles to relax while collaborating with other members of the community. Solving puzzlehunts (and general problem solving) becomes eye-opening, creative, and exciting when peers share ideas or just simply have fun being together. Not only will this benefit students in the long run in the academic setting, but also in the real world where teamwork is necessary for creative solutions. Puzzlehunting is a team sport! Ultimately, this club aims to have members discover the joy of the “Eureka!” moments in puzzle solving and build lasting bonds through various events. As there are no other clubs dedicated to puzzlehunts, this club would provide a space for those who love puzzles but are interested in a more long term challenge.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There are 2 - 3 leaders for this club. They are tasked with organizing and leading meetings, coordinating Puzzle Hunts, hosting our own Puzzle Hunts, and maintaining any digital documents as well as websites. If a leader leaves the school, applications will open to club members to become the next leaders during the end of the school year. The applications will be read by the current leaders and new leadership will be decided upon. Applicants will be selected based on their activity as well as their contributions. If leaders do not leave the school or the club, leadership will carry over through the school years. In the case that a leader is not doing their job, a vote will be held. In the case of a majority, the leader will be removed and a new one will be chosen. If all the leaders are removed, then a new vote will be held to determine the new leaders.

What makes this activity unique?:
There are no clubs at Stuyvesant currently dedicated to puzzlehunts. This club is perfect for those who love puzzles, but want something more long-term that they can collaborate with friends on. This club also introduces the Stuyvesant community to puzzlehunting, as it’s not very well known. Having a dedicated space for puzzlehunting with peers that can help makes puzzlehunting less intimidating and more approachable. This club will also teach the basics which are the building blocks upon which puzzles are built and serve as a safe space to practice gaining the intuition to solve more complex puzzles.

