Mission Statement:
To pursue our collective passion for mathematics through problem-solving and to help each other improve.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We have practices on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Fridays every week. Math team is also first period every day.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of the math team is to help students build intuition when solving complicated math problems and to build a community of people who enjoy math and problem-solving. Additionally, the math team provides students with math competitions for them to take and practice their math skills. Members are expected to attend each math team class first period and take the AMC 10/12 A each year. Additionally, it is highly recommended that Freshmen and Sophomores attend the Tuesday practices, which helps them build connections with each other and introduces them to competitive mathematics. Juniors and Seniors are highly recommended to attend Friday practices, a more advanced version of Tuesday practices. Finally, everyone is encouraged to go to Wednesday practices, which is specifically for AMC 10/12 practice to prepare people for the AMCs and AIME. Students are also expected to listen and take notes for each Math Team class. The Math Team also holds the DMI, a competition for New York City schools.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant Math Team will work to teach and introduce students to exciting and fun math problems, properties, and theorems that they would not have without this club. Math Team will also provide unique math competition opportunities, such as AMC 10, AMC 12, AIME, USAMO, USAJMO, HMMT November, HMMT February, ARML, PUMaC, SMT, BMT, USMCA, NYSML, CMIMC, CML, IML, Purple Comet, TrinMaC, and NYML. We also host the DMI competition, which is completely student-run. Teams from all across the city come to Stuyvesant and take DMI, providing an experience for students to both take competitions and host them. In class, we also do practice rounds from these contests and other contests like the Mandelbrot. Through these competitions, the math team acts as a bridge for students to collaborate. Members often build friendships through communication at these contests, practices, and class activities. Students and leaders can learn presentational skills through presenting solutions at practices and preparing materials. The math team is also one of the only clubs with teachers who direct each club activity, giving students insight and providing an experience for a better problem-solving experience. Not only do these students build connections with each other, they can also create connections with other students beyond the city, state, and even, the nation.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Mr. Sterr selects the senior captains for the math team each year. Additionally, applications are sent out by email for rising sophomores, juniors, and seniors to apply for assistant captains for each grade. Captains write problems and organize the Wednesday practices, which are for all grades to practice for the AMCs and AIME, and Friday practices, which are for Juniors and Seniors. Junior assistant captains write and organize the Tuesday practices, which are for Freshmen and Sophomores. Senior and sophomore assistant captains help out with these practices. If a captain or assistant captain is not doing their necessary role, Mr. Sterr or Mr. Kats will remove this person from their position and assign it to another student of the same grade. Not attending practices or actively listening in class may also result in someone getting cut from Math Team. However, these occurrences happen rarely and should not discourage anyone from applying.

What makes this activity unique?:
We are the only math team that has ever existed in Stuyvesant and have a very long history in this school. Additionally, we are one of the best math teams in the city and nation, and one of the most prolific teams in Stuy. Our club hopes to educate students in the field of math, problem-solving, and computation. Math is essential in our lives and it helps build critical thinking for students to use in whatever areas they pursue later in life.

