Mission Statement:
StuyOrigami hopes to provide students interested in origami, whether beginners or more advanced, a place to relax and enjoy a common interest.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We plan to have weekly meetings on Tuesday and Thursday. These meetings are not mandatory, but feel free to come even if you want to chill out.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyOrigami offers a casual space for beginners to learn more expand their interest in origami while letting more advanced students a chance to grow more. Meetings are relatively relaxed and aren't mandatory, but each one will have a main focus of free folding, beginner demonstrations, or lessons on techniques and kinds of paper. Members are not required to follow along with these objectives, however, and will be free to work on personal projects or even schoolwork they've been putting off. They can also seek the help of other members in the club with anything they're working on. More advanced members of the club are available to help in any troubles beginners find in their folding journey. The club also often works on larger projects to create decorations for the school based on certain holidays and events. Members are not required to contribute to these projects, but the help is appreciated. Basic types of paper will be provided.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyOrigami provides students a relaxed environment and a time to spend on the specific art of origami. StuyOrigami can provide students with supplies and show them just how much more advanced origami can get, with techniques like wet folding, kirigami, and strip folding. Known throughout the world, origami is intimately interconnected with math and science. Many of the most well-known folders being former MIT students or even NASA scientists. Take Robert J Lang who quit being a Nasa laser physicist to pursue origami full time for example. Due to origami's reputation and usefulness, StuyOrigami sets out to provide Stuy students with a place to pursue any interest they have in origami. StuyOrigami also helps with holidays and events. Former Stuy students may have seen the paper decorations we've created for holidays and events. It is a club tradition to outfit the library with trees and reindeer for Christmas, pumpkins for Halloween, and more. StuyOrigami helps give a little bit of fun to parts of the school with an activity that at its roots helps honor the STEM history of the school. The nature of origami is such so that it’s incredibly cheap and easy to start has so much below the surface if one chooses to continue learning.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership is split between the president and vice-president who can appoint additional help if necessary. The president will organize the meeting schedule and agenda while planning larger projects that club members can contribute to. While not having any strict responsibilities, the vice-president will aid the president in organizing larger projects and carry out tasks asked of them by the president. Any suggestions raised by the rest of the club will be taken into consideration. The president and vice-president will stay in power until they graduate or step down. In the event of a vacancy(ies), the previous president or vice-president must pick a successor(s). If only the president is stepping down, then the vice-president will take over as president and a new vice-president will be chosen. In the event that either leader proves themselves unsatisfactory or are abusing their power, a club member may take it up with the president or vice-president and an anonymous vote will be carried out. If two-thirds of the vote (rounded down) agrees with the impeachment, it will be carried out. The vice-president will become the new president, if need be, and a new vice-president will be appointed.

What makes this activity unique?:
Origami is unique art with limitations in only being able fold the paper. It is more complex than it seems with roots in math and science, along with types of paper needing to be taken into consideration as one goes into more advanced designs. Simultaneously it is also an easy art to get into with the only starting materials needed being a piece of paper, whether copy or even post-its. Being the only club to focus on origami, we can explore further and teach more advance techniques that have developed within the art. The club also is one of the only ones whose pieces go into gifts and decorations for the school.

