Mission Statement:
The Athletic Association aims to increase school spirit at Stuyvesant through sports.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet once every other week, and more often if necessary during certain parts of each sports season.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Athletic Association promotes athletics at Stuy and creates an intersection between athletics and the student body through management of the official sports Instagram account @stuysports and organization of school-wide events and showcases. Members will be involved in one or more specified team within the association based on talent/interest: social media, events, photo. SOCIAL MEDIA: create eye-catching, engaging, and original content for the @stuysports account and SAA website. This includes regularly recognizing an Athlete of the Week, the weekly sports calendar, sports Trivia Tuesday stories, season intros/recaps, highlighting games, and effectively communicating with Stuy teams and athletes. Members of the social media team must have basic Instagram/website management knowledge or graphic design skills. EVENTS: organize and execute well-run events for the entertainment of the student body with a goal of increasing school spirit. Examples include the student v staff game, sports banquet, games between PSAL teams, 3v3 basketball tournament, Homecoming/themed football games. This year, event planning also includes managing finances as the SAA aims to charge low prices for some events in order to raise funds for the end-of-year sports banquet. Members of the events team must have some after school availability, organizational skills, and be able to communicate with the SU and Stuy faculty. PHOTO: capture photos and videos for social media/website use. This includes frequently attending PSAL and SAA-organized events to highlight teams and athletes, as well as media days for interested teams. Members of the photo team must have basic photography skills (cell phone is fine, but a camera is helpful) and be readily available when the social media team has photo requests. Mandatory meetings are held every other week to plan upcoming events and manage responsibilities (but the SAA is understanding of the commitments of being a student-athlete). In addition, all members are expected to attend SAA-organized events and PSAL games whenever possible (both for the spectator presence and to keep the association updated on Stuy PSAL happenings). Most importantly, even though no sports experience or athletic interest is necessary to join, members should be enthusiastic about Stuyvesant sports!!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Athletic Association benefits the Stuyvesant community as a group dedicated to unifying the student body through athletics. The association increases student involvement in sports and live game attendance, and keeps students and faculty updated on PSAL events/achievements. Many Stuyvesant athletes are incredibly talented, and many teams see historical success, but neither individuals nor teams are properly recognized for their accomplishments. The association aims to acknowledge the achievements of student-athletes and sports teams and bring solidarity to the Stuyvesant community as a whole. Few things are as unifying as sports, as they have a unique capability to bring diverse groups of people together. The SAA wants Stuyvesant athletics to be a source of school pride and school spirit. The @stuysports Instagram has been rapidly growing—the account’s following has increased by over 400% in one year. We want to make sure this revitalization of sports culture at Stuy doesn’t lose momentum. In the long term, the SAA will benefit the Stuyvesant community by bringing the school body together by increasing their interest in sports. Many schools take great pride in their athletic achievements, but Stuyvesant often garners a reputation for having an inferior caliber of teams. This is a baseless claim that the SAA hopes to disprove. Our athletes deserve to be celebrated and acknowledged, both by the Stuyvesant community and by other schools, and the SAA is determined to deliver this respect.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There are five members of the SAA lead team: president, social media director, events director, photo director, and website manager. The president of the Athletic Association organizes all SAA activity. The association includes three teams—social media, events, and photography—and each team has a director who will delegate responsibilities within each department. The social media director curates and manages the creation of content for the @stuysports Instagram account. The events director manages the flow of each event and sets up teams to work within all SAA events. The director of photography heads the photographic operations at games and media days, leading the rest of the photography team. The website manager keeps the website up-to-date by frequently adding to it. At the end of each school year, the association will elect the next lead team. If issues arise, association members can report to either of the presidents and leaders/members may be removed if necessary. Members are expected to be dedicated to their assigned teams and be informed enough to keep the association updated.

What makes this activity unique?:
The association is unique in both its approach to promoting Stuyvesant’s athletics and in the structure of its long-term goals. First, the SAA uses the @stuysports Instagram account to increase awareness of and enthusiasm for athletic events. The use of social media enables increased outreach both within and outside of the school environment. The SAA hopes to impact as many students as possible to increase engagement and audience at athletic events and games, while simultaneously seeking to spur interaction with other schools and organizations, including the Stuyvesant alumni community, to generate funding and further engagement. Additionally, the SAA is seeking to leave a lasting impression on Stuyvesant that will continue to be maintained and furthered by future presidents and lead teams. The long-term goal of the SAA is to leave a legacy that creates a Stuyvesant culture that not only acknowledges and celebrates academic achievements, but also athletic ones. All in all, the SAA hopes to elevate the unity of the student body by increasing the overall engagement and school pride as it relates to sports.

