Mission Statement:
Creating an inclusive and supportive environment for wrestlers of all levels to come together and learn new things.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Wednesday, Friday, Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will vary, but we will generally try to have a few practices per week.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Wrestling aims to provide a safe space for Stuyvesant's wrestling community and is always welcoming to newcomers. We welcome experienced wrestlers, new beginner wrestlers, girls, boys, and basically EVERYONE! Wrestling is a sport that isn't talked about much, or highlighted on TV, however, its popularity has skyrocketed in just these past few years. Students all over the nation are slowly discovering the beauty of wrestling as a sport. Members of Stuy Wrestling Club will meet an array of amazing people, and attend weekly practices on actual wrestling mats. Practice days will be announced on an ongoing basis. New techniques will be taught at every practice, along with conditioning to keep the mind and body sharp. Occasionally, wrestling games will be played and meetings will NEVER be boring. Though members aren't expected to have any previous experience, it is recommended to have wrestling shoes and wear comfortable athletic clothing to practices.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy Wrestling Club will bring about a new sense of belonging to all of its members. Actively moving your body and knowing how to defend yourself brings about a new sense of confidence, which many Stuy students struggle with. Under all the loads of pressure and work of being a student, it can be difficult to make friends and discover new hobbies. Stuy Wrestling Club will address both those issues. Members, beginner wrestlers especially, will now have the opportunity to try out a sport without the pressure of competition, which many students tend to fear. If students discover their passion for wrestling through this club, then they are more than welcome to join the official team, where they will be able to participate in actual competitions. Being a wrestler means to be hard-working, diligent, willing to learn, and it so much more than just moving around on the mat. The skills that members will learn in this club will translate into the real world. Wrestling is an incredibly underrated sport, but that also means that many people don't have access to wrestling, nor do they have many opportunities to learn about it in a comfortable setting. More people deserve to learn about the beauty of wrestling!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions are handed down based on the previous leader, and will usually correspond with the captain of the Stuy Wrestling Team. Leaders are typically upperclassmen, but should overall demonstrate sufficient skill in wrestling (enough to teach other members) and be able to lead a group of people. As a member, you are expected to try to show up consistently for practice. Though you will not get penalized for absences in the club, it will not transfer well if you try to join the team, due to an emphasis on attendance. We completely understand other time commitments and responsibilities and will try our best to accommodate your needs. Members will not be forced to do anything they are uncomfortable with (a certain move, wrestling partners, etc.), though conditioning will be highly encouraged otherwise. Wrestling shoes and comfortable athletic clothing are highly recommended because wrestling is a fairly active sport. Get ready to learn!

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Wrestling Club allows members to actually learn a combat sport in a safe environment, and in their own school, without having to commute outside. Stuy wrestlers should have more representation and more opportunities to share our passion for this sport. This club will coordinate with Girls Wrestling Club to spread the message that wrestling isn't just for boys. In fact, anyone and everyone is welcome to join. The only thing to fear is fear itself.

