Mission Statement:
Teach interested students how to play instruments and provide a performance platform for all Stuy musicians.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet several times throughout the year just to discuss teaching, as well as outreach concerts.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Members will receive private lessons once a week in the instrument of their choice, taught by Stuy student musicians. Teachers are chosen by application. Members can also form their own chamber music groups. There will be concerts at school, for soloists and groups, outreach concerts at senior centers, and fundraising concerts every weekend where students will busk in the park. There will be meetings once a month to check in on progress, and teachers will be expected to log their lessons. At the end of the year, there will be a concert to showcase the students. Our purpose is to introduce students to classical/contemporary instrumental music who may not have had much prior experience, provide lessons for students who may not have access to them elsewhere, and create a community for all students who have an interest in music. Chamber music groups may also be considered for the prestigious Lincoln Center chamber music competition.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will benefit any students who may not have previously had access to instrumental lessons. They will be able to practice on a school instrument, and every lesson will be a chance to connect with a Stuy student musician. Teachers will also benefit by gaining teaching experience. The club will create a community for any students with an interest in music and help expose them to various styles, including classical and jazz. There will be a number of performances throughout the year where students can practice their craft as soloists or as part of a chamber music group. The club will be a creative space for all students to learn and express themselves. It will also benefit audiences at Stuy, who will get a chance to support their peers in performances and be exposed to more types of music. The outreach concerts at elementary schools and senior centers will benefit other audiences of different age groups as well, inspiring them with music performances and bringing light and hope into their lives. Music has the power to heal, and this club will bring everyone, musician or not, closer together. They will discover a new side of themselves and form strong friendships with other members of the club.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There are four leadership positions at the moment, and all four leaders share equal responsibility for all tasks. As leaders graduate, it is up to them to appoint the next leaders, preferably students who have been very involved in the club, play an instrument, and have a strong interest in music. It is recommended that there be no more than four leaders at a time. It is also recommended that there be at least one leader in senior year and one leader-in-training from a lower grade. Teachers will be chosen by application. They are expected to log their lessons. If members or teachers miss more than five lessons without a valid excuse, their participation in the program will be reconsidered. If a leader does not complete tasks they are responsible for, or is not involved enough in the club, they may be removed by fellow leaders. All members are encouraged to come to monthly meetings.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club is unique in that it does not only offer a space for student musicians to perform, but also lessons for students who want to learn. It is a club that anyone can join, even if they have never touched an instrument before. It is also special because there are few clubs in Stuy that fully embrace classical music and provide so many performance opportunities for students. Furthermore, there are fundraising concerts in the park in order to raise money for instruments for the band and orchestra, which is something that does not often occur in Stuy either.

