Mission Statement:
Since its conception in 1906, Caliper Literary Magazine has been a haven for Stuyvesant's artists and writers.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday, Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Although it may vary monthly, we attempt to host one art workshop, one writing workshop, one community review day, and one fun activity day per month. Meetings are usually on Wednesday.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of Caliper Literary Magazine is twofold. First, the club holds weekly meetings for students to free-write, free-draw, or respond to one of the provided prompts, which can deal with elements of writing and art ranging from topic to structure to theme. After working for 30-45 minutes, members share their work with the group. On workshop days, the editors will lead the group in a series of designed activities to work on a specific skill of either writing or art. On peer-editing day, members may share any work they wish, even if they have not written it for Caliper, or even professional work that interests them. Members then give constructive feedback on the other members’ work, and suggest that other members do the same. The magazine is published physically twice a year. Throughout the year, chosen pieces by Caliper members will be periodically published to the Caliper website and/or instagram.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Caliper serves not only as a creative outlet through publication of the magazine, but also as a community of writers and artists that helps students to find their voice. In the midst of Stuyvesant's ultra-competitive environment, it is good to have a place to appreciate other students’ creativity, alongside one’s own. Caliper is welcoming to all students, yet maintains a close-knit feel between its members and facilitates creative growth through a supportive environment where they can hone their writing and storytelling skills, skills that extend to many parts of life. Members get practice in writing poems and short stories, drawing portraits and landscapes, which can prepare them for competitions and careers, while maintaining a relaxed environment. During meetings, the leaders provide the members with prompts to get their creative juices flowing and encourage them to share their creation. This allows members to find their creative voice in a way not consistently encouraged by other outlets. Distribution of the magazine showcases some of the creative talents of our students that are better expressed in print than in performances, and encourages other students to produce their own work, altogether contributing to Stuyvesant’s oldest literary tradition, connecting the students today to the students of more than one century ago.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Caliper is a community-driven club, and so the editors-in-chief and members of the club are in constant communication, with the members trusting their editors to be transparent and explain everything related to the matters of this club. If there ever comes a point where an editor-in-chief of the club abuses their powers or neglects their duties as editor, it is upon both the other two editors-in-chief — as well as the members themselves — to recognize and address the issue. It is imperative that all the editors-in-chief contribute to the development, punctual, and engaged all — if not almost all — of the time.If the time arises that this promise is being undermined or ignored, the proper impeachment procedure will follow. Additionally, any form of disrespect or intolerance displayed by any members during or outside of meetings will not be tolerated. In appointing future editors when current ones graduate or are no longer able to lead, there will be a fair application process available to all that are interested involving a requirement of short responses demonstrating dedication as well as a lengthy interview process. Potential candidates will be interviewed and assessed by the current editors-in-chief who will design a Google Forms and schedule a Google Meets (for the interview) in order to decide the new editors-in-chief.

What makes this activity unique?:
Caliper is more than just a publication. It is a home for writers, for poets, for artists --- for everyone, really. It is a place for you to unleash your creativity when Stuyvesant can feel like an environment where creativity is stifled, especially amidst the business and workload of the regular school year. It is somewhere where you can just be you, share work that you have made and are proud of, and be appreciated for it. At Caliper, you are able to interact with people who share similar interests, share your work, and get advice and feedback. At the end of the day, Caliper puts the unity in community (and yes, we know how cheesy that sounds).

