Mission Statement:
We seek to educate and inspire students to begin or improve their journeys in weightlifting and fitness.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet at least once per week in the Stuy weight room, and hopefully, we will be able to meet there twice per week or more as the school year progresses. We can also hold meetings outside of the weight room, such as running days, if they are in demand.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
We will hold weekly meetings in the weight room, for both discussions of core tenets of fitness, and for training and improvement in physique, bodily strength, and technique in weightlifting. Club members are free to come to however many meetings they want to, but they are encouraged to come at least once a week in order to absorb important aspects of core disciplines such as training with good form, maintaining high intensity, and maintaining a proper balance between fitness and career goals. Members will be routinely performing a variety of weightlifting exercises adjusted for their needs and goals, whilst progressively overloading and improving over time. We will also discuss good practices in fitness, advising students on the safest and healthiest long-term decisions for how to improve their health, both physically and mentally. The Stuyvesant Weightlifting Club is dedicated to providing students with important perspectives and advice that can improve their physical well-being in an increasingly stressful academic environment where students’ health is often an afterthought.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
As many at Stuy will know, the primary goal of almost every student is to achieve academic success, whether that be through a high GPA, 5s on all their AP’s, or a great volunteering and leadership record. Regardless of the avenue students choose to express their ambition, it overwhelmingly tends to the academic and educational setting. As members of one of New York’s best rated high schools, it’s sometimes easy to put aside other priorities in place of academic success, such as proper nutrition, healthy amounts of sleep, and our focus in this club, consistent and regular exercise. Despite this, routine exercise and adequate nutrition serve as the bedrock for a healthy and sustainable lifestyle, on top of allowing for the study and work habits we need. Combining learning and exercising into a fun, educational, and personally rewarding experience is our goal for students at the Weightlifting Club. Research has shown that people who take at least half an hour a day for moderate to high intensity exercise are much more likely to be happy, have a more positive attitude towards life, and pursue their goals with greater motivation. Students who consistently and rigorously weight training can apply their habits and success to almost every aspect of their lives outside of the gym, such as everything from school to other extracurriculars to the next steps in their lives, even after graduation. The Weightlifting Club serves as an opportunity for students to have an environment to destress about school, focus on improving their fitness and health, and spend time with a community of like-minded people, when the “regular” Stuyvesant environment does not provide one.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
President - Schedules meetings, leads physical training activities (with the help of an advisor), leads lecture meets, provides personal assistance to students
Vice President - Advises President, schedules meetings, co-leads meets, provides personal assistance to students
Director of Media - Artwork design, social media outreach, in-school poster outreach

Appointment of leaders is at the discretion of the President, however, applications for existing positions are open, and new positions can be suggested for creation at any time! 

Upperclassmen (Junior/Senior) presidents are recommended to have a younger student as a candidate for their replacement upon graduation. Existing leaders that are not due for graduation may continue their leadership role between school years, provided they do not resign or get removed. 

Students, both members and leadership, are expected to create and foster an open, free environment where everybody feels comfortable to participate in any activities taking place and feel welcomed as a member of the club. Any students who violate this rule will be removed, as hate or hazing are not welcome.

What makes this activity unique?:
Very few other clubs in this school are focused on physical activity and exercise, let alone a highly focused discipline such as weight lifting. We hope that students will feel as though they are provided with a new way to express themselves, both with a new hobby to partake in, as well as a new avenue to pursue their personal fulfillment. Our club will also be run by individuals who have experience weightlifting, as both the President and Vice President have over a year of history with lifting and participating in the Weightlifting club.

