Mission Statement:
StuyCycles mission is to bring biking to people of all skill levels and aims to teach them how to properly utilize bikes to traverse the city.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The meeting schedule will be around 1-3 times a month, aiming to have at least 8 meetings a semester. We will be meeting from about 4:00-5:00 every other tuesday.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of StuyCycles is to bring biking to Stuyvesant for people of all different skill levels, whether it be those who have never learned how to ride a bike or experienced cyclists, members of the club will be learning about the basics of biking, bike safety, and the many benefits of biking to the biker and the environment. StuyCycles' purpose is to also discover new routes with others, new buddies to bike within their free time, and connect with cyclists. Cycling helps to relieve stress and allows more freedom in traversal, allowing access to trails that can offer many views to the biker, places that were invisible to many who’d use methods of public transportation until now. StuyCycles wishes to bring something lightweight, affordable, and easy to maintain to Stuyvesant. StuyCycles wants to connect Stuyvesant students with the hobby of biking and show how unique and beneficial it can be for them and even the environment.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Biking has many benefits health-wise and environmentally, helping others learn how to safely and properly ride a bike will allow them to get around the city in a quick way, with added health benefits. StuyCycles helps bring fun with exercise and even can help develop a better sense of balance and coordination. Biking allows people to go at their own pace, whether slow and steady or intense. Being able to bike can build help one build endurance, flexibility, mobility, bone strength, and stamina. Biking not only can help physical health, but it can improve mental health as a way to help reduce stress and anxiety. StuyCycles not only benefits people but it also benefits the environment; biking doesn’t release harmful emissions into the environment which, in turn, doesn’t pollute or release carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. It’s a pollution-free mode of transportation and uses no fossil fuels. Biking is also a nice way to explore the local area and the city as a whole, allowing access to areas where cars cannot reach, such as parks and piers. StuyCycles will help create a community of bikers at Stuyvesant who can help each other better themselves and accompany each other while biking.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions in this club include President, Vice-President, and managers, whom work together to ensure the club is running smoothly. The President and Vice-President will be those who organize the club, appoint managers based on their knowledge of biking, decide which weeks the meetings will be held, and what the focus of meetings will be. The managers will be helping teach those who are inexperienced the basics of biking and bike safety. The next leaders of the club will be decided by the President and Vice-President, who will hear the cases of those who apply for a leadership position and decide who is best suited to run the club. If someone in the club believes another is unfit for a leadership position, they can report them to a manager, who will report it to the President and Vice-President, an investigation will be held and if the person is unfit for leadership, they will be removed from the role.

What makes this activity unique?:
There is currently no biking club at Stuy and being the first biking club can help many eager to learn how to bike or others who can bike but never do because they have no free time. We are able to have a stress-free environment after school being able to chat and ride bikes around. StuyCycles offers a sense of adventure and exploration. Being able to see new places is what makes the club so different because we are here to show beautiful views and utilize places even cars can’t get to.

