Mission Statement:
The mission of the Breast Cancer Awareness Fundraising Club is to collect enough funds to make a difference in the lives of those with breast cancer.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We plan to use polls to figure out which day of the week works best for all those who are interested, at least early on in the year. Wednesday and Thursday seem to be the most convenient days for now, but our schedule is flexible.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
This Club will spread breast cancer awareness around the school as well as collect funds to donate to breast cancer charities such as the Susan G. Komen Foundation and the American Cancer Society. Club leaders expect to hold fundraisers every few months so that the money could later be used to help breast cancer victims around the world. General members of the club are expected to help with fundraising efforts, including help setting up and being present when possible. Other activities may include writing to hospitals and homes in support of people suffering from breast cancer and attending and/or finding knowledgeable speakers on the topic. Hopefully, the Breast Cancer Awareness Fundraising Club will partner with other clubs in the hope that as many people as possible are aware of its goals. Leaders are expected to find new charities that the club can donate to and then help organize fundraisers for these organizations.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
It's said that people are joined closer together when they're fighting against a common enemy. On the surface, we may look like high school students fighting this elusive disease that still stumps researchers, but we have more power against it than we know. We won't make millions, but if our efforts mean that even one person suffering from breast cancer wins the fight, then that's already a win. But our mission isn't only to raise money for breast cancer organizations, it's also to educate people on this horrible disease that affects about 4 million people as of this year. We believe that knowing and understanding the enemy is the first step to rising against it, even if it's an adversary as elusive as this one. Through our efforts in advocacy, research, education, and fundraising, we believe we can make a difference for many. Our activity will not only benefit those currently suffering from breast cancer; we hope that our club will benefit the future generation as well, as we ourselves learn more about breast cancer and educate others about it so that it can be identified and fought earlier in the stages. Together, truly, we believe we can make a difference.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Currently, only the positions of Co-Presidents are occupied - Samantha Ruinsky and Alexandra (Sasha) Ruinsky. More leadership positions such as Vice President, Event Director, and Fund Director will be released shortly. Members who wish to apply to leadership roles in the future must be involved in at least two fundraisers per year. If a leader becomes inactive in this club, their position will not be transferred to the next school year. Otherwise, if a leader remains committed and follows the code of conduct, their position will not change with each coming year. Forms will be sent out on each grade's Facebook groups as leadership roles open up. Leaders are chosen according to a member's participation in previous fundraisers and their overall commitment to the club. Vice-presidents are expected to assist in multiple events during the year and occasionally lead fundraisers if the presidents are absent. Fund Directors communicate with other clubs and organize collaborations for fundraisers.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Breast Cancer Awareness Fundraising Club is unique to Stuyvesant because it focuses specifically on individuals fighting breast cancer. While other clubs may allocate their funds in different directions, the goal of this club is to focus all profits on helping the people fighting breast cancer or those striving to find cures. As it is one of the most common types of cancer (current statistics show that about one in every 8 women in the US will develop it in their lifetime), we have decided to focus on it specifically, and hope to make a difference.

