Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Improv is a safe, non-competitive space for students to express themselves and unlock their creativity, all while laughing and having fun.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We meet once a week for 8 mostly-consecutive weeks in Autumn, and then again in the Spring. The day of the week on which we meet will be the same every week, but what day that is will be set in stone at the first meeting.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Improv club is here to teach students the basics of theatre improv with a professional teacher and to allow them to unwind after the rigorous school day. Improv teaches students more than just routines and games, but how to think on their feet, think outside the box, openly collaborate with others, and adapt to new environments. During meetings an improv teacher initially leads the group through theatre games, some familiar from elementary school and some new, in order to warm members up and give them the chance to adjust to using gibberish, expressing ideas with their body, and responding quickly without filtering or doubting themselves. These games often also prompt students to initiate interactions by themselves, which makes students more comfortable with one another and new people in general. In other contexts, the actions in these games would be considered embarrassing, so this introduction also serves to lighten up participants and get everyone on equal footing. 
In the second half of the meeting, and this portion may increase as the season progresses, scene work becomes the main focus. Scenes usually only need two people but there might be more, all other members can observe as audience members. Audience members suggest the premise, learn from their peers, and get to enjoy an often hilarious performance. In the scenes, students will heighten their emotion and hone their storytelling skills by reacting to each other naturally within the constraints of the specific game/activity. Scenes will rotate so everyone has the opportunity to perform at some point. Throughout the meeting, members get feedback from their peers and the teacher. 
In-person meeting reminders will be relayed by the faculty advisor and other questions or communication can go to the emails of the leaders, the club email, or the Messenger group chat.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
We provide students with an opportunity to be creative with their bodies and language and to practice thinking on the spot. A free improv class is a fun way for kids to set aside the constraints and stress of the school day and feel confident in expressing themselves among their peers. Improv also improves kids’ ability to generate new ideas and get out of their heads. Plus, it provides a community environment free of judgement, where the point is even sometimes to make a fool of oneself, which helps kids become more confident and helps build friendships that otherwise might have been inhibited by hesitance. 
Many in the Stuy community face the issues of intense academic duress, a lack of confidence, or an aversion to putting themselves out there. Through improv activities one cannot help but put themselves out there. Additionally, when one is told to clear their head and just say the first thing that comes to mind, there is no time to worry about the demands of teachers and schedules. It is imperative that Stuyvesant have a club where people can come to embarrass themselves, however counterintuitive that sounds, so they can learn not to fear whatever embarrassments may come their way in daily life. It is also a profoundly social club, there is just about no activity that could be classified as independent. Stuy students spend plenty of time, especially during remote learning, working alone, even by dividing group projects and completing their section with no thought given to how the project will come together. Independent work is an important skill this school teaches, but in improv activities, students must rely on each other and listen to each other’s input to create anything. Those skills will be useful in future business interactions just as much as they will be in social ones.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Improv is largely community-based, with all members having the same chances to participate, so leadership is mainly reserved for organizational purposes. As of yet, leaders are the most senior members of the club due its size. In the future, leaders will be nominated by the departing leader to the faculty advisor, and if there is an agreement, then the club member will be asked if they are interested in a leadership position. If they are not, someone else will be asked. The onus is on the outgoing leadership to choose their replacements as the most enthusiastic members who will be most dedicated to continuing the club, there is very little opportunity to abuse the little authority they have. 
If members do have a complaint about leadership they can email our faculty advisor or the other leader and ask that there be a change. If inappropriate behavior or incompetency is discovered then the other leader and the faculty advisor will agree on a new nominee and go through the procedure described above. If a member is interested in a leadership position they can email either current leader and ask to be nominated. If a leader wants to step down a new leader will be appointed but the leader will be expected to hold their position until the current meeting season ends.

What makes this activity unique?:
Each day's workshop will have two components: theater games that are designed to loosen up the students and turn their focus onto interacting with the group as a whole; and then structured scenes where students play out improvised scenarios in front of the group while receiving expert coaching. The exercises are designed to encourage trust, teamwork, and risk-taking. Learning to accept failure and move on is encouraged, as is stretching emotional, physical, and verbal “comfort zones.” The workshop will also give the students a chance to see their peers from a different perspective, and to meet students they might not encounter during their academic day.
Improv was done for the first time at Stuy in the Spring of 2019; besides that, it has never been held as an extracurricular. Improv is a much lower-commitment, more spontaneity-focused extracurricular than acting, that focuses on developing acting skills in a different way: through improvisation, which improves quick-thinking and gets people out of their heads. It’s also wholly uncompetitive because there are no auditions, no experience required at all, and everyone wants to see everyone else do well; appreciating other members’ funny or well-done scenes. No one is ever ranked, and even scenes and games are contributed to by everyone present, through scene prompts. Thus, Improv is the only non-competitive, stress-free acting club that theater kids (and just kids who have a casual interest) can join and go into knowing that everyone will be viewed equally and have equal opportunity to participate in all activities.

