Mission Statement:
Stuy Care aims to promote health literacy and raise awareness of common misconceptions regarding health and healthcare.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet every Monday after school, meeting more than that only if necessary. The meetings would take place from 3:30-5:00.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Care hopes to shine a light on the aspects of healthcare that often get overlooked and bridge the gap between language and cultural barriers. Members of this club will be educated on various healthcare plans, understand physician notes received from doctors' appointments, and learn how to optimize health in everyday life. This club uniquely focuses on the digestibility of information, so members, regardless of their prior knowledge, will feel welcomed and informed. Stuy Care will be a place for members to show their interest and dedication in the healthcare field. Club members will be required to participate in the US Medicine and Disease Olympiad (USMDO), which is the qualifying competition for the International Medicine & Disease Olympiad (IMDO). These competitions will allow members to gain a greater understanding of health and become more multifaceted in the healthcare field. Above all, our top priority is allowing club members an opportunity to showcase their avid interest in the medical field.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will benefit Stuyvesant because it will introduce a new area of study for those interested in the healthcare field. We aim to bring in as many students as possible who are interested in working in the healthcare profession to not only go over the basics of healthcare but to build upon their understanding of the problems and accessibility of healthcare. In addition, Stuy Care will work to strengthen the Stuyvesant community by fostering greater relations between students and staff. We plan on asking healthcare workers in our very school to share their experiences and their advice for aspiring premed students. Further, this club will hold fundraisers to help fund our school’s nursing staff in order to provide optimal care for students. Proceedings will also be donated to charity and those in need of healthcare. Members of Stuy Care will have the opportunity to create their own healthcare-related projects to be presented at school events such as clubs and pubs and potentially published as a professional systematic review article. Finally, Stuy Care plans to bring in guest speakers from multiple renowned hospitals, such as New York Presbyterian, in order for students to hear from first responders themselves. By giving back to the Stuyvesant community, Stuy Care can create an environment that promotes growth and education.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
This club takes leadership seriously; those who wish to gain leadership in this club must display true initiative and ambition to help guide Stuy Care to meet its mission. Prospective leadership members should regularly participate in discussions, attend all meetings (unless a valid excuse is given), and have several qualities of a leader. During discussions, prospective leaders should contribute new ideas and frequently ask questions to engage in the discussion. In the rare case that an appointed leader fails to uphold his or her responsibilities, an impeachment may be applicable, in which the board will review the issue at hand and take necessary action. The board will consist of members in leadership positions. Members may be appointed as presidents in training when the president and vice president are in their senior year. Training for this position will include shadowing the president and/or vice president and managing part of the club’s affairs until the president and vice president leave.

What makes this activity unique?:
What makes this activity unique is that it educates students on issues that they may not be aware of or be well-versed in when it comes to healthcare. Unlike other clubs at Stuyvesant, the information taught in Stuy Care is not only applicable in the students’ professional lives but also in their personal lives. Unfortunately, healthcare as a whole is not well touched upon in class discussions, which is why Stuy Care aims to prompt greater health literacy. This is why one of our missions as a club is to communicate and spread vital information about health care and ethics ranging within a variety of careers. Furthermore, the ability to invite professional healthcare workers from hospitals and healthcare facilities we have worked in will enhance our knowledge in this important field and help us master learning skills as we will be able to present firsthand perspectives that consist of real-life conflicts and solutions. Subsequently, using this knowledge, we can collaboratively work together and create presentations, pamphlets, and videos in various languages in order to spread awareness and information to families and communities that may not have the resources to be knowledgeable in this field. Therefore, our club consists of not only communicating and increasing knowledge of health care but also expanding awareness of this field within families and communities that we live in, mastering comprehensive and learning skills, and simply giving the members a fun and informative experience, which differentiates it from other clubs as it helps the members and the environment around them.

