Mission Statement:
The mission of the Fuzhou Culture and Food Cub at Stuyvesant is to celebrate and promote the rich culture and diverse culinary traditions of Fuzhou.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
(FC)² will meet biweekly on Fridays either on zoom or in-person at member chosen times.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
There are five main purposes to this club. 

One, (FC)² hopes to foster a communal appreciation for the rich cultural heritage of Fuzhou through gallery walks showcasing its arts, traditions and customs. 
Two, (FC)² hopes to share the diverse and delicious cuisine of FuZhou through cooking workshops that share cuisine recipes, food tasting events, and potlucks.
Third,  (FC)² is an inclusive community that welcomes students with an interest in the food and culture of Fuzhou to come together and form long lasting friendships.
Four,  (FC)² provides lessons to engage members in Fuzhou’s history, language, traditions through fun activities and plays.
Five,  (FC)² facilitates cultural exchange by collaborating with other clubs (Cantonese Club and Chinese Literature Club) to foster a broader understanding of different cultures within our school.

Overall, (FC)² seeks to promote cultural awareness, celebration, and exchange among students through gallery walks, cooking workshops, potlucks, lessons, fun activities, and plays. (FC)² hope students can engage in meaningful interactions about Fuzhounese culture while contributing their own ideas to improve and better the club.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant has a sizable Fuzhounese population but the majority of students do not speak fluent Fuzhounese nor have a comprehensive understanding of Fuzhounese culture despite their origins. (FC)² addresses this unique aspect of the school’s demographic by providing a platform for Fuzhonese students and students of other regions to converge. The club facilitates meaningful interactions among students who share a common cultural heritage or interest in Fuzhou but have varying levels of familiarity with the Fuzhounese language. This inclusivity fosters a sense of community within students who are united by their interest in Fuzhounese culture. (FC)² will feature four major themes during meetings: play ideas, potluck events, games and activities, and workshops and lessons.

Play ideas include historical dramas that highlight significant events from Fuzou’’s history and cultural legends such as traditional folktales and legends that provide both entertainment and educational value.
Potluck events include cultural exchanges through portable desserts and cuisines members eat at home and recipe exchange, where participants share stories behind their dishes and the cultural significance for their culture.
Games and activities include jeopardy and kahoots with questions related to Fuhou history, language, customs as well as language learning games to teach basic Fuzhounese phrases.
Lessons and workshops include language workshops that teach common phrases and expressions and traditional art workshops that teach calligraphy, painting, or paper cutting.

Thes ideas provide a diverse range of activities, ensuring (FC)² offers a well-rounded and engaging experience for members of varying comprehensions. Incorporating educational elements, historical exploration, and interactive activities contribute to the club's mission of  learning, sharing, and appreciating the Fuzhou culture in a dynamic and inclusive manner. The club not only benefits individuals’ cultural knowledge but also promotes cross-cultural understanding, weaving Stuyvesant’s cultural tapestry, and creating an environment that celebrates diversity among its student body. Fun fact: “FU” means luck in English, so (FC)² hope this club will spread luck to all of our members.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
(FC)² will have four main leaders: President(s), Vice President, and Outreach Director. The President(s) will be in charge of meeting to meeting operations and administrative tasks like directing and planning meetings. The Vice President will aid the Presidents and succeed the presidents when they graduate. The Outreach Director will reach out to other clubs and organizations for collaborations. There will be a leadership application at the end of each year. All members may apply with the only requirement being that they are passionate about Fuzhounese culture. There will be two rounds in the leadership application, the first being a written part on Google Forms and the second being a brief interview in-person or via Zoom depending on the circumstances. In the case that any leader breaks the rules, members may report to another leader in the team about it and the leadership team may ask all members to vote for an impeachment if necessary. Depending on the situation, leaders who break rules will be demoted or removed from the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
The FuZhou Culture and Food Club stands out from other clubs for several reasons. First, the club focuses on Fuzhounese traditions, art, and customs, alongside a culinary component of traditional Fuzhounese culture. This club would connect all Stuyvesant students with Fuzhounese origins and allow other students to learn more about a unique and beautiful culture in Fujian province. (FC)² plan on having events both in and outside of school such as potlucks, fundraisers, and other volunteering opportunities.

