Mission Statement:
This organization works to collect donations , to be sent to Ukraine, through fundraisers such as bake sales, donation boxes/jars, game nights.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet depending on when our fundraisers are.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of the club is to collect donations and research what we, as students, could do to provide aid to Ukraine, which is currently in a damaged state due to the ongoing war. Students that hope to contribute to Ukraine's well being, or to the well being of communities in general, will feel accomplished as they are actively working towards organizing donations through this committee. On relaxed days that the club isn't working towards a specific donation event, we will converse about Ukrainian, Eastern European, and Slavic culture, and Ukrainian treats such as candy will be provided. Through research, we will work towards educating students within and outside the committee of the current state Ukraine is in. Through this learning and advertising, students will be persuaded to work towards the benefit of Ukraine through involvement of this committee, specifically, the effort, research, and time in organizing donations for Ukraine within Stuyvesant.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This committee will directly benefit Ukraine as we will be collecting and organizing donations. This committee will offer students who are interested in volunteering and public service a way to directly contribute to those in need. It also allows for a sense of community as students will feel connected to their Ukrainian or Russian culture. We hope to set up a stable foundation and little by little, the committee will build and accumulate more and more members and donations. We will ensure this will continue in the future when leadership positions will eventually lie in the hands of future students. We don’t expect to make grand donations from the start, but by conversing and coming up with ideas, and increasing involvement we are sure to make an evident impact. As we mentioned before, the committee will also serve as a space of cultural appreciation in which we expect to establish a close knit community interested in Ukrainian culture. We also hope to provide comfort and support to students who are emotionally affected by the conflict in Ukraine. We understand and will acknowledge the worry of those who have family in Ukraine, and the grief that anyone could experience after learning of the state Ukraine is in right now. Therefore, we hope this committee not only directly provides aid to Ukraine, but also provides a sense of peace and unity within those willing to stand up for the suffering in Ukraine.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
We will have 2-co presidents, 1 social media manager, and 1 treasurer. Roles will be chosen based on participation, attendance in meetings, ability to think of creative ideas for fundraisers, and willingness to contribute to the committee. The social media manager will update our Instagram page with new information regarding our meetings, our accomplishments and our plans for the future of our club. The social media manager will also advertise our club and post our statistics and success. The treasurer will be responsible for counting the donations, whether they are in money form or necessities such as clothing. He/she will also determine when we have gathered enough to make a donation. All leaders should be organized and determined to work in their area of the club and increase the success rate of the Ukrainian Aid Committee. The treasurer will also take on duties of the co-presidents if one is unable to be present. The treasurer will also be the new president and has the option to elect a co-president after the former presidents leave the school. Treasurer and social media manager positions will be re-chosen each year, although the same person could be re-elected. Leaders are expected to remain respectful snd motivated, if a member of the club suggests a leader be impeached, the club will hold a vote based on wether or not that leader should be removed.

What makes this activity unique?:
What makes the Ukrainian Aid Committee unique is the fact that members will be actively donating to a good cause and truly making a change. While raising donations, we also hope to educate and inform students on the state of Ukraine presently. We will promote an inclusive environment for all members and ensure a sense of belonging for all, conducting surveys often and having the social media manager or treasurer analyze the results to ensure everyone’s voice is heard and enforced. We will take pride in the collective efforts of everyone and accept everyone’s ideas. We’ll try to conduct as many hands-on activities during our meetings to encourage engagement but also provide entertainment. Most importantly, we will be united by a common goal/interest, to help Ukraine, which will ensure success.

