Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Rowing Club provides access to rowing opportunities, races, and boatbuilding at the Village Community Boathouse.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings are every Friday right after school, weather permitting. Due to the weather, we will generally pause rowing from around November to April but may still hold meetings for our boatbuilding sessions.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The club organizes rowing events on the Hudson River and teaches students maritime skills, boatbuilding, and how to row as part of a crew. All students are invited to join – it is never too late to learn a fun new skill! No experience is required prior to joining the club or team, and you will be able to learn everything at meetings. The club members are friendly and happy to help you get accustomed to rowing. Students are able to get a coxswain certification from the boathouse. The club also assists the boathouse with community rows, teaching newcomers from the public how to row. Additionally, the club has a rowing team that competes in three to five races per year around the Northeast. Crews train weekly year-round to maintain skill and muscle mass. Tryouts are usually held in the fall when school starts. Competitions are often in the winter and spring. The boatbuilders maintain our Whitehall boats, based on a historical design, and repair them when needed. They also build two to three boats per year, ranging in size from Whitehall gigs to canoes. All are welcome – no experience is necessary prior to joining and the workshop heads teach members everything they need to know.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant Rowing Club allows students to experience the Hudson River in a special way: by rowing in it! The club accommodates all students who want to row by teaching them, placing them in crews, and providing a comfortable and friendly environment. Being able to row literally right past Stuyvesant is a great experience for any student to have, whether it’s once, on a special day, or up to twice a week at our rows. Many of the teams and athletic clubs at Stuyvesant require students to have prior knowledge and experience of the sport or the game before joining the team. The Stuyvesant Rowing Club is not like that, as all members will be taught everything they need to know in order to have a safe and fun time on the water. Only the race crew admits members based on skill – the club, which meets up to twice a week, will teach everyone who comes how to row. The club also participates in various special rows such as rowing around Manhattan, rowing to the Statue of Liberty, and even rowing to New Jersey where rowers can dock on shore and go visit a local restaurant. Furthermore, the club does youth races every year; even regular club members get to compete, forming their own teams and rowing against students from the club, the Harbor school, the Sound school, and beyond. Join the club for a great experience!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Captains are nominated by current leaders and senior members. They will be selected based on commitment to the club, desire to train new members, and ability to work with current leaders. Captains must have completed coxswain training at the Village Community Boathouse, which is available twice a year for any member. The primary purpose of the captains is to collectively decide on club decisions, organize races, train new members, and promote the club. The club president is chosen by the captains before the year ends. If a leader is not fulfilling their role in the club, the other captains/president will address specific changes they need to make. If they are unwilling to make those changes they will be asked to step down from leadership. Members are expected to sign into the log book each day, sign up on the google sheet sent out by email, and have an up-to-date waiver any time they row. They must follow all existing Village Community Boathouse protocols and be respectful to other rowers in and outside the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
The club provides members with the truly unique opportunity of rowing in the Hudson River, and it fosters a welcoming community dedicated to teaching and mentoring others about maritime skills and boatbuilding. When members join our organization, they will not only be joining the Stuyvesant Rowing Club – they will also be joining the Village Community Boathouse, which will give members the opportunity to meet club alumni, experienced boatbuilders, and seasoned rowers from around the world.

