Mission Statement:
The Stuy Martial Arts Club aims to teach self defense techniques and allow students to practice, learn, or teach different forms of martial arts.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Wednesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We meet almost every Thursday at a local dojo/dojang, usually meeting at the bridge and walking there at around 3:50-4. We have the space from 4:15-5:15. Leaders will also sometimes hold meetings in school after 10th around the 3rd-4th floors, usually Mondays or Fridays. Competitions will be held independently of these meetings.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The main focuses of Stuy Martial Arts are to teach/practice martial arts and develop discipline through training. This club has Instructors who are skilled in specific martial arts (ex. Karate, Taekwondo, Kickboxing) who will teach the skills they have learned to club members. The goal is for each technique to become second nature so members can effectively defend themselves. We will hold meetings at the local dojo and at school. School meetings will be less physically challenging and more based on teaching certain techniques from a certain martial art, and may be used to drill techniques that are less dangerous. Dojo meetings will serve as a place to practice certain techniques that we cannot do safely in school, such as takedowns. We will also be drilling kicks and general combos to improve skills, and include intense physical activity to stimulate mind and body. We will also hold special sparring meetings for those who bring gear. We are dedicated to ensure that sparring is controlled so nobody gets hurt, and these meetings also serve as a way for members to test the skills they've learned. It is entirely okay for any members to not participate in techniques if they are uncomfortable. This club does not endorse bullying, starting conflicts, or fighting. Rather, we wish to promote respect among members and the importance of choosing not to fight when possible. Depending on interest, Instructors may organize competitions within the club or with other schools in which we would form a competitive team.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Self defense is an irreplaceable skill that everyone should have. Members of Stuy Martial Arts will learn and practice self defense in a safe environment, while simulating and preparing against harmful situations. Violence is not uncommon on the streets of New York City. Knowledge in self defense techniques can give you self reassurance that you can protect yourself in dangerous areas, and the skills provided by learning martial arts will help no matter where you are in life. This knowledge will also allow people to recognize attack patterns or methods so they know what to be cautious of. The focus of Martial Arts is not only to defend yourself, but also training for physical and mental development. Training with discipline will reward members as they will see their physical capabilities improve, from muscle strength to flexibility and decision making, as well as mental benefits ranging from compassion and respect from training with others to the ability to learn and adapt to different situations. Training in Martial Arts will allow members to improve speed, accuracy, footwork, mind-body coordination, reaction time, and more which can benefit members in their everyday life. Independent from our goal to teach martial arts, members will be able to experience health benefits from training regularly with us. Competiton also stimulates growth and improvement, as competitors will strive to get better to win.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions include Presidents, Vice Presidents, Secretaries, and Instructors. Presidents are the heads of the club, so they serve as the final say for any issues that arise. Presidents should have direct communication with our faculty advisor(s) and be present at most meetings as well as club pubs. In general, presidents should head the processes of getting equipment and doing competitions in the first place and secretaries would oversee that it runs smoothly once guaranteed. Vice Presidents will also lead meetings and be able to do the same job as Presidents. Generally, Vice Presidents are next in line to be President unless the Presidents choose otherwise upon graduation. Instructors lead the overall dojo and teach new martial arts techniques to the club members, as well as making logs of what they teach that will be posted(ex. a slideshow). Members are expected to listen to the Instructors of the club and follow any restrictions they apply to a meeting activity. Secretaries are in charge of logistics, recruiting new members into the dojo, promoting the club, and creating + directing a form of communication between the Instructors, Presidents, and students. The transfer of leadership is in the hands of the previous year’s Presidents and Secretaries. If the Presidents are graduating, they will choose a number of skilled members who will uphold the image of the club and show they have leadership capabilities to be the next year’s Presidents. Secretary positions will be chosen by the past Secretaries and will be filled with the club member(s) who has shown the most dedication to the club, even if they may not be highly skilled when it comes to martial arts. If leaders are found unsuitable for the club by their peers, an impeachment process shall be held through a private club meeting. Leaders shall be impeached through a vote process among the Presidents, Secretaries, and Instructors. If more than two-thirds majority vote in favor of impeachment, the leader shall be replaced by the choice of the remaining leaders.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Martial Arts is a brand new type of club within Stuyvesant. Many kids at Stuyvesant have martial arts backgrounds, however there is no club that allows them to explore that interest in school, until now. This club provides an environment where students are able to learn techniques that they are able to apply if the time ever comes when they need to physically defend themselves. Not only will our club help teach students martial arts, but it will also help them keep different muscles throughout their body physically active. Our aim is to be able to teach at least 2 new skills during each club meeting and put them to practice. We will not only make this productive, but also fun for our trainees by allowing them to compare their skills and encourage some friendly competition amongst them. After some experience and training, for those interested, we will also provide opportunities to go to local martial arts competitions(if held), which our club can compete in as a whole!

