Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Science Olympiad explores and strives to excel in a variety of disciplines in the realm of science through learning and competition!

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We host meetings everyday after school to teach all new members, regardless of experience, the necessary material to compete in competitions leading up to competition season, which starts in January. During competition season, we have additional meetings for competition preparation specifically.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Science Olympiad is a national organization that hosts annual inter-school competitions on a regional, state, and national level. These competitions consist of 23 events in science that focus on specific topics within six fields of science: Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Earth Science, Inquiry, and Technology. At each competition, competitors work in pairs through a variety of topics and formats, from performing chemistry labs to flying simple constructed helicopters. 

To advance to each next level of competition, a school must demonstrate its prowess in each of the six fields of science. To this end, the Stuyvesant Science Olympiad Team works to prepare its members not only to achieve prestige and medal places during competition, but also for them to explore and discover more about their passions in the expansive niches of science. 

The organization is entirely student operated; veterans of the competition teach new members how to compete in each of the 23 events on a weekly basis, and members compete and strive for success on one of Stuyvesant's yearly teams.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Besides aiming to come out on top during competition season (current goal: making our name at Nationals!), the Stuy SciOly Team hopes to encourage an air of camaraderie and teamwork among its competitors and a passion to learn and discover more about the sciences. 

Although the club may be considered high commitment, it is certainly not cutthroat. At the end of the day, the reason for sending members to compete is so that they can better themselves not only as students, but as scientists and teammates. Every meeting has the inherent purpose of teaching the members about interesting scientific topics and processes and having them work together with their competition partners in studying/building/experimenting. Science Olympiad is meant to serve as a stepping zone to chase any subject that interests them, and develop their communication and problem solving skills collaboratively with their teammates.

Each year, many leadership positions as Event Leaders, Captains, and on the Executive Board are open for all members to apply. Over the season, the club provides a unique opportunity for those who have demonstrated commitment to the team to represent the club’s ultimate mission. In this way, these students mature and develop from students into teachers, leaders, and scholars. 

Science Olympiad also provides unprecedented opportunities to engage with students from all across the nation. With so many competitions each year, each one is an opportunity to interact with students from California to Hawaii and start networking!

It is in our sincerest hope that the qualities they gain from their time with the club are spread around and diffuse and inspire all of the students at Stuyvesant and the Science Olympiad community. Stuy Scioly has long stood for a willingness to learn and a triumph of teamwork, and will continue to stand for bestowing these qualities onto its members.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There are around 14 student leadership positions in the team: 1 to 2 Captains for each of the 6 divisions, a President and Vice President, a Treasurer, and a Secretary. The President, Vice President, Treasurer, and Secretary constitute the Executive Board. Every year, the leaders meet together to choose new leaders to fill in the roles of the team's graduating leaders. Applications are released to existing members, interviews are conducted, elections are held, and new leaders are voted for by the previous ones.

Usually, leadership is reserved for upperclassmen and veteran members. Existing positions are held from year to year given that the leader has shown sufficient commitment and dedication to the team. The council of existing leaders is responsible for the selection of future leaders, voting to decide. 

The Vice President is selected as a sophomore, learns management from the President during their junior year, and advances to Presidency in their senior year. The Captains may be selected at any point in their Science Olympiad careers, given that they have shown leadership skills and mastery throughout the competition season and their application process. Treasurers and Secretaries are selected similarly to Captains, based on their abilities to manage finances and logistic organization.

Should the case arise that members or fellow leaders of the team find that a leader is not performing their given duties correctly, they will inform the Executive Board about the issue. After validating the problem, the Executive Board will hold a vote with all of the other leaders on whether to relieve the leader of interest of their duties. If at least two-thirds of the leaders vote in favor of removal, the leader will be relieved of their position immediately and irreversibly; an emergency election form will be released shortly after for other members to fill in the role if needed.

What makes this activity unique?:
Since 2004, Science Olympiad has been the largest outlet for Stuyvesant students to express their love and passion for science at Stuyvesant. 
StuyOly engage in competition in various events across many scientific disciplines, including Biology, Chemistry, Earth Science, Physics, Inquiry and Technology - but the team is beyond just a mere union of students. Stuy SciOly is a family composed of unique and talented individuals, ranging from aspiring artists to future politicians, united by both the drive of competition and their emotional and personal struggles.

From testing powders in the Advanced Chemistry Lab to guessing the number of licks it takes to get to the center of a lollipop; from racing cardboard kayaks laminated with packaging tape across the river to singing on a long bus ride up the snowy roads of upstate New York, the members of Science Olympiad have molded the club into a sanctuary from the hardships and obstacles that club members all share.

While Science Olympiad provides members with an intense, immersive experience in science, strengthening their characters and inspiring persistence, it also serves as a powerful catalyst for their mental, social, and emotional development, creating memories and bonds that will last a lifetime.

