Mission Statement:
Mission : 
Stuy Birdies aims to provide a judgment-free zone where badminton players of all skill levels play with other Stuy students and alumni.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
What is the meeting schedule?
Most of our meetings are on weekends when most students are free. We also include meetings during breaks and 3-day weekends as well.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
What is the purpose of this activity?
Stuy Birdies is a club for those who are interested in badminton and want to play it with other Stuyvesant Students. It operates by hosting meetings on long weekends and over breaks. The meeting day gets announced and anyone who wants to come to a meeting will let it be known in the discord. Stuy Birdies picks a badminton center, usually, Tiger Badminton or NYBC in Queens, and then lets anyone show up to play. Since it is a low-commitment club, not much is required from the members. It is asked that you join the Stuy Birdies Discord in order to streamline communication and make life easier. There are also no dues and the only money you would have to pay is when you go to a badminton center to play with your peers. Aside from that, everything is completely free. In this way, Stuy Birdies is allowing Stuy students to find other badminton enthusiasts, create friends, find common ground, and have a fun experience with those who share similar interests.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?
Stuy Birdies is the only club at Stuyvesant where young badminton enthusiasts can gather in one place to enjoy an uncommon sport. While growing in popularity in America, badminton isn't very well known by most people. Badminton is most popular in Asian countries, being China's number one sport. We aim to provide a place for like-minded players can come together and play with other friends and previous Stuyvesant alumni. Not only do students benefit from the great sparring opportunity as new players are constantly joining, but it's also a great time to learn from players better and more experienced than you. Many of Stuy Birdies' members were previously on the Boy's Badminton Team, which made finals 2 years in a row and won city championships in 22-2. These players have great on-court experience and are willing to play with any new players who join Stuy Birdies. New members can get access to courts with good lighting, mats, and feather birds: a rare luxury in most commercial gyms at community centers. All of these new experiences can allow badminton enthusiasts to increase their skills, build their confidence, and give opportunities for students to interact with other players. Stuy Birdies will help enrich the Stuyvesant badminton circle and diversify the player base with students across all skill levels.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
How does this activity appoint leaders?
Leadership positions are handed down based on the previous leader. We lean towards upperclassmen for these positions, however, as they usually have more manager and/or playing experience. As a low-commitment club, members are not required to attend every meeting, and inactive members would not be punished. If you want to stay and play, that's great. If not, you're free to leave the discord/club. It takes a lot of effort to manage such an event, as different clubs cost different per hour, per player, and everyone lives a different distance from a given club. Therefore, we will often need managers to organize and take polls on members to find the optimal time, location, and cost for each player. These managers have a high likelihood of being appointed as the next leader since management skills correspond with the duties of a leader for Stuy Birdies. Therefore, a certain amount of commitment is required before you're considered as the next leader once the previous ones graduate.

What makes this activity unique?:
What makes this activity unique?
Stuy Birdies is currently the only club at Stuyvesant that provides consistent meetings and recognition for badminton as well as providing a place for students to play the sport. Stuv Birdies consistently manages groups of up to 20 people to go to one club in NYC and play for 2-3 hours. Without Stuy Birdies, it will be difficult to manage a group play for badminton, payment, and scheduling appointments with different clubs across the city. It also provides a unique experience for badminton players at Stuyvesant to interact with different badminton materials, players, and courts.

