Mission Statement:
Quiz Bowl is a way to expose students to a larger variety of different topics than what they may be provided with in the school curriculum.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We plan to meet every Monday between 3:30 and 5:00 PM with optional attendance. Members may also be interested in attending Saturday tournaments.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Quiz Bowl is a fast paced trivia game that tests your knowledge on a wide range of topics. There are two teams of 4 players each, and each game is composed of 20 tossup-bonus cycles. Each tossup has a specific answer, and gives clues for that answer, starting with highly specific clues, and progressing towards more general and commonly known clues. The team who answers the tossup first then receives a bonus which is composed of three questions all relating to the same topic.

Members aren't required to come to every meeting, but are encouraged to do so when possible. Priority in tournaments and other events will be given to those with a consistent attendance to the club; however those are not required of any club member. Meetings will be composed of reading practice questions as well as preparing members for future questions. Studying between meetings is not mandatory, and those who only wish to play casually will not have to do so under any circumstances.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Quiz Bowl allows students can expose students to a wide range of topics including science, history, literature, fine arts, math, religion, mythology, and current events. Members of the club can gain a deeper knowledge of each subject in a fun, fast-paced, and motivating format in both a casual and competitive environment. Students also gain experience in communication and teamwork as each bonus often requires cooperation in order to get the answer. Members are not only able to learn with each other about the world around them, but also connect with each other by being able to understand each members strengths and weaknesses (teams may find a member who demonstrates additional proficiency in one of Quiz Bowl topics), as well as interact with students across the country in Quiz Bowl tournaments. Additionally, students can develop quick thinking and reaction skills as a result of having to identify and recall information in the fast-paced nature of the tossups. However, Quiz Bowl isn't just limited to answering questions. Members of the Stuyvesant community can get involved with Quiz Bowl in a variety of ways. Not only can students answer questions, but students may find enjoyment in reading or even writing questions of their own.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions will involve two co-presidents. They will be responsible for doing all the typical tasks of running the club. They will schedule the meetings (and are expected to attend them except for one off occasions), search for possible tournaments to attend, request funding for tournaments (if applicable), plan for and attend the club-pub fair, and any other typical leadership tasks that are necessary. There may also be an additional head of outreach who assists in tasks such as recruiting people to join the club and representing the cub at the club-pub fair. 
The leadership positions for the following year will be chosen by the co-presidents at the end of the year. Club members may request interest for a position or the co-presidents can reach out to any likely candidates ask them if they are interested. Possible candidates will be considered primarily in terms of experience with the club and attendance of the meetings because the leaders must be able to devote sufficient time to run the club. If a holder of a leadership position is deemed unfit for the position by at least 2/3 of the club or they leave the club, then an election will be held, will all frequent members able to cast a vote for the new leadership position.

What makes this activity unique?:
Quiz Bowl allows students to demonstrate their ability in a wide range of subjects without the limitations of more specific clubs. There is a place in the Quiz Bowl club for everyone whether you love space or poetry or mythology or anything else. You can contribute to the environment of the club and the team. Quiz Bowl also allows students to be able to gain a deep understanding of subjects in a more motivating way than studying for the sake of a good grade on a test, for example.

