Mission Statement:
truecrime.stuy is a club for all fellow true crime enthusiasts and those interested in the psychological makeup of criminals.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies depending on availability, but we are striving to meet once or twice a week.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Have you ever wondered what pushes people to do the unthinkable? Well, truecrime.stuy is a haven for anyone interested in anything true-crime related, whether it's the latest crimes, the most bizarre unsolved cases, or just in general, the psychological aspects behind criminology. Truecrime.stuy strives to create a welcoming environment for anyone who wants to get into true crime or is already interested in the fascinating topic. Even though true crime is gradually becoming more acceptable to chew over in society, students might not have many people to talk about it with, which is why truecrime.stuy is here for anyone wanting to discuss true crime freely with peers who think the same way. A new true crime story, case, or topic will be brought up and dissected once a week. Depending on availability, a new psychological condition that occurs as a byproduct of criminal interference will be discussed weekly/biweekly. Truecrime.stuy will also host a true-crime media night every month, where members will choose a true crime-related media piece for the club to watch and enjoy together, depending on availability. The club is open to any suggestions from students into consideration to ensure the best experience for everyone. Truecrime.stuy will discuss concepts such as criminology, criminal law, and forensics and bring in professionals from these fields to help students interested in pursuing crime-related jobs. Truecrime.stuy will also have its sights set on possibly having trips arranged for members to have a more extensive understanding of the field. Members will be encouraged but still have the choice to attend every week or not based on their availability and/or interest in a certain week's topic. Truecrime.stuy is a fun community open to everyone and hopes to shine a light on the true-crime job field. Although truecrime.stuy is lenient with missing meetings, members must have a valid reason for each absence. If a member misses more than three meetings with no excuse, they will be removed from the club.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Truecrime.stuy is a safe place for anyone interested in true crime, psychology, or criminal law. The club allows each member to connect with others with similar interests and discover new passions. It will also serve as real experience for jobs dealing with the crime field. Skills, such as problem-solving and public speaking, will be touched upon throughout the club's weekly meetings, where discussion is encouraged among every one of its members. Students who may feel uncomfortable talking about their interests in the field will find comfort in this club that encourages those interested in true crime to share their thoughts and opinions on Ted Bundy, the Zodiac Killer, Elisa Lam, and many more! Students who are unsure of possible future career paths can receive a taste of what it's like to work in the crime field through professionals who will be invited to explain their typical workday and/or the impact their careers have on society. Members of this club will hone their critical thinking, logic, and problem-solving skills. Connections between Stuyvesant and the real world will be made when passionate speakers are brought in to talk about their careers. Truecrime.stuy also noticed that Stuyvesant doesn't have many crime-related electives/classes, such as criminology, and hopes to change that for the students looking to pursue a career in the crime field.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Truecrime.stuy's leadership positions are appointed through a Google Forms application and after careful, unbiased consideration will have to participate in a short interview. Leaders are required to attend every meeting unless they have a valid excuse. Leaders are expected to contribute to the foundation of truecrime.stuy; this can include having suggestions and being open and ready for anything. Some specific but general protocols that all members have to follow are: being consistent with the meeting attendance, trying to participate in group discussions, and being respectful throughout the club's meetings. Leaders will lose their positions if they deign to participate and contribute to making materials for the club, do not attend meetings regularly, and are seen as being disrespectful to anyone, inside or outside of truecrime.stuy. Current leaders will appoint leaders together after one graduates. New leadership positions may open up throughout the school year if deemed necessary by the current leaders.

What makes this activity unique?:
Truecrime.stuy is unique because it is the only club in Stuy that surrounds itself around everything relating to true crime and criminal law. Truecrime.stuy is an all-inclusive club that welcomes anyone and everyone, regardless of how new they may be to the subject. This club will help its members realize the importance of both the little details and the bigger picture in life, which is key to detectives investigating a crime. Truecrime.stuy is also a very "domain-specific" club, meaning that it mainly focuses on one topic or subject; this allows members to develop skills they won't necessarily gain access to and/or experience from in other clubs or situations. All members and their opinions are respected, as the club is a place for people to discuss their different perspectives on the controversial subject of true crime. Truecrime.stuy is a community open to everyone!

