Mission Statement:
Started in 2016, Stuy Prep works with traditionally underrepresented middle school students to gain entrance into NYC's specialized high schools.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
TBD (most likely virtual) for two days a week, and each meeting is around 1.5 hours

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Tutors are expected to attend two meetings every week for two sessions (excluding holidays), excited and ready to teach in small, designated groups with up to four or five students. The bright seventh grade students you'll be working with hail from schools including Girls Prep, Boys Prep, and, our long-time partner, Dock Street, just to name a few. Although the main role of participants is to teach students, past members have expanded their roles by volunteering to help create packets, lesson plans, and even teach the entire class at times (completely optional). In the off-season, we will implement simple projects that we can send out to affiliated schools in order to show middle-schoolers around and about Stuyvesant. Tutees of our program have left with close mentorship and increased confidence in test-taking, specifically catered toward the Specialized High School Admissions Test. Tutors frequently come out of the program with a deeper understanding of communication, teaching experience with younger students, and even the desire to pursue a career in education.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy Prep is one of Stuyvesant High School's oldest tutoring programs, and it continues to expand its outreach to prospective Stuyvesant students. This program supports the success of traditionally underrepresented students, whether defined by race, socio-economic background, and/or being first-generation. In short, Stuy Prep is an accessible gateway into the specialized high schools that provide a wealth of opportunities even beyond graduation. Tutors who are also members of Key Club, Red Cross, and/or ARISTA are given volunteer hours or credits from actively attending Stuy Prep's weekly meetings. More importantly, however, tutors are given the opportunity to connect with their tutees and other tutors, gaining a deeper insight into how to communicate more effectively and how volunteering can be a wonderful and rewarding experience. With two sessions every year and a summer session run by Stuyvesant alumni, there are several opportunities throughout the year for students to get engaged and discover new passions in teaching or strengthen old ones. Even those who are not interested in pursuing a career specifically in teaching will learn how to work in groups, engage with different age groups (from adult faculty to younger tutees), and remain consistent and responsible. Members may even find themselves joining the group of alumni that fund and support Stuy Prep in the future.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leaders are appointed when a senior board member graduates. There are four leadership positions that will be open by the end of this year: President (oversees all operations), Vice President of Tutoring (teaches the entire class and the basis of the lesson at the beginning of sessions), Vice President of Logistics (reaches out to schools for partnerships and ensures that emails get sent/checked), and Secretary (general exec board duties/takes attendance). Gaining a position on the board means working together effectively and taking on all three roles at once in many cases (high commitment). Prospective board members are expected to submit an application and interview for a specific position of interest.. Leaders are expected to attend every meeting, show up on time, and be proactive in improving Stuy Prep. Above all, board members are selected based on past attendance, their display of passion in written responses, and preparedness for the interview. In the case that board members rarely show up to meetings for no excusable reason, they can be removed from their position based on the decision of the other board members.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Prep has remained a quality form of supplementary education for middle school students who may not have the financial resources to pay for SHSAT prep classes, which can be $1000+. The program promotes equity in the public education system, bridging the gap between students of different socio-economic and racial backgrounds. There is power in accessibility: the choice to attend whatever school a child dreams of, furthering their education and continued access to educational resources. Furthermore, it is an experience for middle school students to meet with students from other schools and make new friends.

