Mission Statement:
AAH aims to create equal opportunities for those marginalized in STEM and reduce the wealth and gender gap through student tutors.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our schedule for curriculum development and progress report meetings will be once a month. Our community outreach events will be monthly or bi-monthly with limited seats to participate.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
We intend to provide free and personalized one-on-one tutoring for core academic subjects and computer science for low-income, immigrant, refugee, and homeless students and provide student tutors with real-world academic teaching experiences. Tutors would be online for hourly (possibly 2 hours in the future) tutoring sessions each week to meet their tutees who come from over 11 states and 18 countries.

1) Members would become mentors to underprivileged kids and guide them through various subjects of their choosing. (ranging from traditional mathematics, English, and computer science/web development)
2) Members would gain real-world experience in speaking and teaching.
3) Members would participate in monthly/bi-monthly community outreach events gaining service hours, presidential service awards, and giving back to the community.
3) Members would meet with each other online, on a monthly basis in order to review study sessions, talk about upcoming events, suggest ways to improve the overall usefulness of the Stuyvesant chapter, and prepare teachable material to be used during study sessions.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant AAH is a chapter of the American Assimilation Helpline that matches each tutee to an AAH! tutor to fit each tutee’s specific needs. Members get community service hours while teaching students all over the world. The organization has a global reach, helping out anyone in need through virtual video calls on Google Meet. AAH! sessions are every Sunday from 5-6 PM EST during the school year. Any students who need help with schoolwork or learning the English language are welcome! Club members can select topics that they are comfortable with teaching ranging from curriculum covered from K-12 including but not limited to Middle School Algebra or English; Elementary level reading and writing; AP Calculus AB or BC, a variety of science courses; and introductory Python, java, and web development to advance levels of the aforementioned coding courses. During these courses, students will improve their speaking skills and learn how to communicate information effectively through experience. Members can also earn the President’s Volunteer Service Award for outstanding performance in bronze, silver, and gold tiers each with successively high levels of service hour commitment. The Stuyvesant chapter works within the New York State chapter in conjunction with borough heads from Bronx Science, Cardozo, and other high schools to form friendships while giving back to the community.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The President is the representative of the Stuyvesant chapter of the AAH and is responsible for coordinating the monthly meetings as well as spreading awareness for the club to prospective members. New members will be notified about the AAH website and given the Google form to sign up for a new tutor account where they will select subject preferences and later sign up for tutoring sessions on the AAH tutoring website. Leadership positions will also be open after a starting period when everyone has been acclimated to the tutoring situation and club members have had the opportunity to provide valuable feedback and insight during the monthly meeting while attending their virtual tutoring sessions. If anyone feels current leadership is inadequately performing their responsibilities, a proposal meeting will be set up to address these issues and if the problem persists, a vote will be taken to remove leadership and appoint new heads.

What makes this activity unique?:
Since its inception in 2017, AAH! has extended its reach to eleven states and eight countries, making an impact on around 950 students across the world with about 600 tutors. Whether it be through teaching core academic subjects or computer science skills, members will be gaining valuable experiences that might even lead to an interest in a career in education. The AAH was founded by students for students and hopes to expand to not only academic outreach but also supporting the homeless with initiatives such as contributing dozens of devices and donating school supplies and hosting blood drives with the American Red Cross. This club is unique in that it aims to provide help to underserved students who fall into the categories of immigrant, homeless, low-income, and at-risk no matter their location in the world.

