Mission Statement:
This club provides opportunities for students to learn from others and get involved in different branches of biology and medicine.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule is about once a week (~4 times a month). It varies between tutoring sessions, interactive activities, and guest speakers.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of BMEI is to encourage students to learn more about medicine and to get involved in their community. The club is a branch of the non-profit: Biology and Medicine Exploration Initiative. It hopes to provide opportunities to assist in medical research and to obtain internships and volunteer jobs. During future meetings, guest speakers will speak about their careers and will outline why they pursued medicine as a career path and how they got to be where they are today. This will be a chance for students who are medically inclined or interested in science to delve deeper into what it means to work in medicine. In addition, the club assists students with biology classes they are currently taking, such as AP Biology. It offers group tutoring services and resources to help students prepare for exams and to succeed in their classes. The club is low-commitment, allowing members to decide how much time they would like to devote to their learning and to choose what meets their needs.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity allows students to explore a career path in medicine in a stress-free, interactive environment. It provides them the chance to see the many routes they can take to pursue what they want in college and beyond. It is very beneficial to anyone unsure of their interests because they can explore what is available to them in a risk-free context and decide if it is right for them or not. The club is not just targeted at medically-inclined students, it also provides a useful resource for students currently enrolled in biology-related courses. It provides resources to tackle difficult concepts and to prepare students for exams such as APs. This activity doesn’t require participants to attend every meeting, because they can choose how much help they need with handling the large amounts of coursework they have to complete. In addition, if one is interested in a specific field of medicine, one can choose to only attend meetings where a lecture about that topic is being held. This activity can also be helpful to those interested in finding unique ways to serve their community through their specific skill set. The club helps students research volunteer opportunities, discover new subjects within biology and medicine, and get involved in their fields of interest.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
In BMEI, there are two co-leaders and many other leadership positions. There will be a Google form sent out in late September/early October for applications for other positions. Members can fill the Google form out and the co-leaders will review the responses. The form will ask questions about the other commitments of the applicants, as well as personal information. There will also be questions about their reasons for interest in the job and how they plan to contribute to the club. The form is for applying to be chairs of these departments: IT and Graphic Design, Medical Education, Biology Education, Program Coordination, Social Media, and Job Outreach. Members will either keep their positions until graduation or apply for a leadership role in the club at the beginning/end of each year. Members are expected to be open-minded and explore different opportunities available to them. Members should attend as many meetings that fit their needs and should notify the leaders if they are unavailable to meet at a certain time. They should actively check email for posts on StuyActivities and meeting notifications. Members will be given a google form that they can fill out if they are experiencing problems with leaders of the club and these problems will be addressed promptly. If a leader does not fulfill their duties, the other leaders will conduct a meeting to decide whether they will be able to continue serving that role or if they need to be removed.

What makes this activity unique?:
We hope to focus more on networking, discovery, and gaining experience. We hope to provide a unique and more broad roster of opportunities and events that heavily focuses on specialization and diving deeper into topics and subjects of interest. We also hope to bring more experience to the table, allowing specialists and experienced students to share information and tips in various courses and fields. We want to add diversity to the Stuy community with this unique take on biology and medicine! Our club aims to support students in all aspects of their biology learning, even if they have no plans to continue along this career path. In addition, our club offers a wider range of opportunities for a career in healthcare. We don't just specialize in 'becoming a doctor,' but rather talk about other professions too in order to further our members' knowledge of lesser-known jobs. Being a branch of a nonprofit will also help students in communicating with others outside the Stuy community and receiving advice and resources from them too. This creates a larger community for them to be a part of and provides them with more connections they can make and use to their advantage in the future.

