Mission Statement:
Super Stuy Bros aims to create a comfortable and accessible environment for students passionate about Super Smash Bros and other fighting video games.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings are scheduled every week on Friday unless external circumstances prevent us from meeting. If we don't have school on Friday, we usually move the meeting to whatever is the last school day of that week.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Club meetings will generally be hosted weekly with students being able to show up whenever they please. During most meetings, members will simply be able to play against other members in friendly matches. Super Stuy Bros is open to both casual and competitive players. For anyone simply looking for other students with a similar passion for Smash or any fighting game, this club hopes to serve as the place to find those people. We hope to create a fun and relaxing community that allows students to forget about school and simply enjoy the things they love. This year, Super Stuy Bros is branching out to include the entire FGC. If you don't play Smash, but enjoy other games in the genre or more traditional fighting games, feel free to join!

Although Club Leaders will bring at least one setup to connect to the Smart Board, members are expected to bring their own devices/controllers. The setup connected to the Smart Board is usually reserved for 8 player free-for-alls, so feel free to bring your own setup if you wish to play more traditional 1v1s or other fighting games.

As with every year, this club aims to frequently host tournaments and other special events. Tournaments end up being the highlight of the year, so whether you're serious about beating everyone or are a casual looking to have fun, it's recommended that you sign up!

Be sure to join the discord server as most of our announcements and updates can be found there.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Throughout the school year, many students might find themselves overwhelmed by the workload or keeping up with extracurriculars. Super Stuy Bros aims to help students destress by creating a place where they can forget about school and have fun. This club's meetings are always hosted near the end of the school week, so it rarely conflicts with student's schedules. At the end of a long week, sometimes you just want to play video games with some of your friends. This club is the place to do that.

Not only that, but we hope Super Stuy Bros allows members to meet new people and create long-lasting friendships with other students who share similar interests as them. At times, it might be difficult to find other people who like the same things that you do, especially since everyone is focused on their academics. This club may provide some people the perfect environment to create new friends. 

For members of the community who simply wish to improve their skill in the game, this club might be able to help. Not only are tournaments a great way to test how much you've improved, but we also plan on providing lessons to members willing to listen. Although seemingly unrelated, learning how to improve is something you can apply to any new skill you might learn in the future.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
In terms of leadership positions, there is the President and then Vice-Presidents. The President is chosen the previous year, usually nominated by that year's graduating President/Vice-Presidents. If the nominee agrees to become the President of the club, they will then pick Vice-Presidents to help them lead the club. The members they choose should be people that deserve the position and are trustworthy. Vice-Presidents should not be appointed just because they are close friends with the President. This year, the club is led through a shared leadership with multiple members sharing the role as President. 

If it is necessary to remove a leader due to any circumstances, their role will likely be given to another qualified member. If for any reason, a leader is showing irresponsible behavior, the other Presidents/Vice-Presidents will discuss a reasonable course of action. The current President/Vice-Presidents have always been seniors, so the transfer of leadership was more straightforward. However, if the current leaders are not graduating in that year, they should pass on the leadership to someone else unless club members unanimously agree that they should keep their positions next year.

What makes this activity unique?:
There are very few other clubs that demonstrate a focus on Super Smash Brothers or even fighting games as a whole. Super Stuy Bros will likely be the only club that can provide a place for all students interested in fighting games to gather. When compared to other genres of competitive video games, Smash and other fighting games tend to be very niche, especially when you compare them to games like League of Legends or CSGO. Not only will Super Stuy Bros attract the few students who show an interest in fighting games, but we hope it will also introduce the appeal of said games to more people.

