Mission Statement:
Stuy New York Times Club seeks to introduce resources and promote news awareness to the general population.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Monday, Wednesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We plan on having in person meetings at least once a month. We will also host meetings on discord in order to facilitate conversations since some members might be busier.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of this club is to help Stuyvesant Students utilize resources they might not have been aware about. Members should be prepared to share something simple and new from whatever section that piques their interest. Discussion will be lighthearted but factual in order to spread ideas to other students who might not have considered reading. We seek to be a club that helps disperse ideas and acceptance towards different ideas. Interested students will be encouraged to read New York Times articles whenever they can. We want students to have the chance to learn recipes, figure out cost effective products, and have a general understanding of recent events locally and globally. We wish this club will provide students with an idea of what good journalism is and how to write effectively. Members are expected to arrive to meetings whenever possible and be prepared to comment on which section they have read.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Members will be taught how to digest news articles. 
Resources that are readily available - World News, Business, Economy, Politics, U.S. Sports, Health, NYC, Opinions, Tech, Science, Art, Book Review, Fashion, Food, Travel, and Entertainment. 
Members will be taught how to utilize resources in order to make them an literate and cultured member of society. They will be able to learn about political tensions and global agreements between other countries. Readers will also be able to read about how our politicans are making decisions regarding things like tech and renewables. Reading about events that shake or solidy our very economy will prepare stuyvies for future events that might occur in the adult life. Some articles will help students learn how to manage their money which our educational system fails to provide. Reading about politics will encourage students to be more active members of society and push people to participate in voting. Keeping track of the Supreme Court will allow students in lunch time to rant about how certain policies affect their lives. For people who are chronically sleep deprived, they can consume articles in the Health Section regarding sleep hygiene, exercise, social media, and latest medical discoveries. Reading the Opinions articles will allow us to form opinions for ourselves. The technology section will help us find good deals regarding headphones, pens, and the occasional items we need.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
In this club, we have several leadership positions. Some positions include but are not limited to technology supervisor, social coordinator, event coordinator, social media manager. The technology supervisor will be in charge of setting up the device and ensuring that all information is up to date on the StuyActivities Website. The Social Coordinator is responsible for reaching out to people at Stuy to convince them to join the club. The Event Coordinator will be in charge of sending out invitations to aspiring members of the club. Our Social Media Manager will be in charge of ensuring all social media channels are safe from hackers and from spammers. The leader of the club will be responsible for the supervision of people in positions and ensuring that all activities are in order. Members are expected to act civilized at all times. Leadership transfer - In order to ease the process, all members of the commitee will come together to vote. Members in lower grades (11th grade) will be considered based on their activity and how they perform in the club. Inept leaders will be removed by the club creator after voting. Should anything serious occur, there will be an investigation and excommunication of the deviant.

What makes this activity unique?:
Our club is different from other clubs because we provide an space for critical analysis. We hope to foster interdisciplinary discussions between members of different backgrounds and interests. We hope our club will encourage members to be hard working and generous members of society. Our regular meetings allows members to discuss things instead of keeping thoughts in their mind. This pollination of ideas will allow everyone to benefit and bloom. We hope this club will improve media literacy and appreciation for resources available to Stuyvesant Students.

