Mission Statement:
StuyAquatics is a beginner-friendly club that educates students about the joys of keeping aquatic fauna and flora!

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
StuyAquatics's schedule will vary, but we meet two-three times a month, typically on Mondays and Fridays. Meeting schedules will continue as normal throughout the fall, may slow down during winter, and will pick up again in the summer. Meetings last from 3:35 - 5:00 p.m.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyAquatics strives for students to explore the aquarium hobby while simultaneously gaining a deeper understanding of various freshwater aquatic species; This includes their required care, and the attributes that they possess. This club also aims to teach students about the various environmental requirements and processes that go into maintaining a healthy, stable aquarium. This club will also discuss mandatory equipment for your aquarium (e.g filters, lighting, heaters). StuyAquatics plans to unify anyone from those who seek a career in aquatic-related studies to casual hobbyists who just like looking at fish. With in-depth presentations and hands-on activities, the club effectively showcases the thrills and challenges of interacting with marine life - be it through research or companionship. Members may attend meetings at their leisure, and can even take home any specimens (e.g plant cuttings, fish, snails) that are available. Types of meetings will range from informational presentations to documentary nights to build-your-own-jar meetings, where members can build their own aquarium jars.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Getting one’s feet wet in fishkeeping may be daunting at first, but StuyAquatics provides guidance and vital resources that are hard to come by for beginner aquarists. StuyAquatics aims to introduce guidelines and tips that students can apply to their own aquariums while advising against common misconceptions that often ail beginner hobbyists. Students will be able to diagnose diseases and funguses that a fish or other aquatic life can contract. Students will also be able to identify symptoms of poor water quality, bacterial blooms, low or high humidity, and fluctuating water parameters in their enclosed ecosystems. By doing so, StuyAquatics aims to lessen the maltreatment and abuse of common aquatic species and bring out their true colors. Without StuyAquarists, students have a very difficult time meeting up face-to-face with those who share their interests in fishkeeping, as the criteria real-life aquarium clubs have can be hard to participate in for a busy Stuyvesant student. The core of aquariums’ appeal is their roles as windows into nature and their keepers’ satisfaction of knowing they are able to raise their very own world. StuyAquatics helps students relieve stress and build memories out of scratch while also nurturing the responsibility necessary to maintain them.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The club board consists of four positions: co-presidents, director, of IT, director of internal affairs, director of outreach and student mentors. Each position can have up to two members. Co-presidents will oversee all activities and projects worked on by each director and club member. Co-presidents will be responsible for collecting information, developing lesson plans and instructing members during meetings They will be responsible for providing specimens to be showcased and given away at meetings. Co-presidents will manage the board of directors. Typically, directors will be responsible for managing positions and assets of the club. Directors and student mentors will be able to apply through a written application and can be appointed throughout the year. Club co-presidents will be appointed the following year through an application, provided they have good attendance rates and have generally proven themselves committed to StuyAquatics. Board members are expected to uphold their duties in a timely manner, and may face impeachment if it’s determined through discussion that this isn’t the case.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyAquatics provides a bubble of young freshwater aquarium enthusiasts not found elsewhere. Communication between all members is highly encouraged, and the bigger the bonds the better. Members should be able to have a casual conversation on topics ranging from the requisites for a 125 gallon aquarium to the tiniest of nano-tanks. StuyAquatics gladly provides students an opportunity to connect with fellow aquarists and discover/foster their love of fishkeeping, whether they're a beginner or a seasoned hobbyist.

