Mission Statement:
Future Financiers’ mission is to educate students about financial literacy and help group students together to participate in official competitions.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Future4Financiers meets biweekly over virtual meetings with the purpose of hosting lessons to teach finance to students across the country. Members who do not feel comfortable leading a lesson/being an educator can watch and participate in meetings until they feel comfortable. Other meetings may be scheduled in-person at community centers, schools, and libraries with the same goal of educating the New York City community; these meetings are highly recommended although not required.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Future4Financiers (F4F) aims to educate students across the nation from all age groups about personal finance. From elementary school students learning the basics of saving and spending to teaching high schoolers how to invest, F4F hopes to make finance more accessible not only in the Stuyvesant community, but outside Stuyvesant as well. Virtual meetings are held on a biweekly basis, to present to students and teach them about finance. Guest speaker events may be held as well. General members will be taught the basics of finance until they are able to teach others as well. The curriculum is a set of 10 units, taught over the course of the year. A large portion of the curriculum is dedicated towards more practical and everyday knowledge of finance that the average adult should know, such as consumer credit, taxes, and insurance. This ensures that attendees of meetings will be learning practical aspects of finance that they are guaranteed to need in the future, even if they do not intend on entering the financial world. In-person meetings are also held at various community centers throughout the cities, along with in schools and New York Public Libraries. Members are encouraged, though not required, to attend at least one in-person meeting per semester.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Despite the large number of business activities at Stuyvesant, few give the opportunity to teach others about financial literacy, and the impacts are largely kept within the Stuyvesant community. F4F broadens the impact that Stuyvesant has on the surrounding community through lessons taught to the entire city, and even country. F4F also enables members who have minimal knowledge of finance to eventually work their way up to teaching others. This is a new system within financial clubs which F4F hopes to bring to Stuy. It is a club that only benefits the experienced finance-driven students but also adheres to the needs of aspiring business students as well. Many students have been looking for opportunities to expand their knowledge within the world of finance by creating their own clubs, but they never end up having an organized structure to follow. Future 4 Financiers, however, already has a complete lesson plan which it will set in motion as soon as the school year begins. With this in mind, our club is confident that we will be able to attract many Stuy students throughout the course of the entire school year rather than just during a specific time period. We will give back to our community by bringing them results and showing our appreciation for their commitment to us. The club is made to bring about the Future 4 Financiers!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leader appointment within Future 4 Financiers will be based upon knowledge within the world of finance as well as commitment to the purpose of the organization. Leaders will be expected to lead individuals groups of teams as well as organize dates for upcoming events/competitions as well as help prepare for them. The Founders of the club will serve their term until they graduate and they will elect presidents to assume their duties during their senior year. Directors will be chosen by the club members who hold executive positions in the organization through a process involving Google Forms and may or may not include interviews afterwards. There will be a requirement of a minimum number of hours participating in the activity to apply. The impeachment procedures will not be based upon one’s ability to understand finance, but rather based upon their commitment to Future 4 Financiers. If they are giving their end of a team effort within their competing group and are reported to the executive board, then they will be in question of being dropped from participation in future competitions.

What makes this activity unique?:
What makes Future4Financiers unique from most other financial clubs is that the organization focuses upon both literacy within various branches in the world of business and finance as well as participating in a multitude of regional/nationwide business contests. Not only will club members have the opportunity to build a strong aptitude for financial literacy but they can also have the chance to earn awards which they can put down in their achievements during high school. Not only will F4f serve as a community where business enthusiasts can come together after school but it will also serve as a very rewarding experience for those who join and are able to stay committed. While there are many clubs that are tailored to specific branches of finance like BlockChain, Crypto, and Investing, most finance clubs at Stuy leave a large void in the basics of finance itself, which doesn’t allow a smooth transition for new students who are just starting out their journey in the world of finance. This is exactly what Future 4 Financiers will be at Stuy for, this is our purpose; our mission. With that being said, we take account the past & the present in financial history and use it to build a greater Future 4 [our fellow] Financiers.

