Mission Statement:
National History Day Club aims to be a resource for all students interested in NHD to develop and receive feedback on their NHD projects.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will be having History Day Club meetings every Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday in room 339.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
National History Day Club will allow students frequent opportunities to conference with Mr. Moore and other NHD participants while they develop and refine their topics, research, choice of medium, and final projects in preparation for Stuy History Day, with the winners continuing to meet for work at the statewide or national level. NHD on its own is a major time investment, which is why meetings aren’t required, just helpful to attend when one can. Resources on finding topics, doing research, and designing the final project are all shared and discussed in the club. This year, the National History Day theme is “Turning Points in History”, and students have the choice of creating an original paper, performance, documentary, poster board exhibit, or website to participate in the competition. For the more complex productions, like poster boards, National History Day club provides a space in which to craft their works and get feedback from Mr. Moore or their peers, meet with their teammates, and practice their presentations.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Mr. Moore has been running after school National History Day drop-in sessions in prior school semesters, but he is now expanding this opportunity to the Stuyvesant community at large, instead of just students in classes that assign National History Day as a project. Students will have the ability to meet experienced NHD participants, learn more about NHD as a whole, and form a community of dedicated historians. Rather than having the NHD efforts of various students siloed off into their own groups, the National History Day Club aims to be a unified organization for everything NHD at Stuy. This includes core concepts and conventions that are key to the creation of an NHD project, which Mr. Moore has collected and refined over his many years mentoring for NHD, and will share with the members of the NHD club. Mr. Moore’s prior students have succeeded at many levels, including the national level, and he has extensive experience with the nuances of National History Day. By publicizing the club on the StuyActivities platform, we hope to broaden the reach of NHD club, and make it easier for students to discover NHD club, potentially discovering a newfound appreciation for history. In addition, we are now able to publicly schedule meetings, so it will never be unclear as to when an NHD club meeting will be taking place after school.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Mr. Moore leads the National History Day club, and his guidance is key to the success of the club. An appointed student serves as a “point person” to manage the National History Day club’s presence on StuyActivities, allowing for Mr. Moore to focus on hosting the NHD club meetings. Because this is not a usual student-led club, only one such leader is necessary. This point person should be someone who is experienced with the StuyActivities platform, and is able to manage the club’s charters, along with the posting of meetings and announcements on the website. They may also have to contact the StuyActivities administration to ensure that club operations will proceed smoothly. When the point person retires from their role, Mr. Moore will select another dedicated student to manage the club for future years. If the point person is inactive, Mr. Moore will decide the proper course of action, potentially appointing a replacement.

What makes this activity unique?:
The NHD club is unique in that its premise has already been established to work based on previous years, and because it is the only Stuyvesant club to focus solely on the National History Day competition. It also benefits from Mr. Moore’s extensive experience with the contest, which no other club can offer. Its frequent, regular meeting cadence is also unmatched by most clubs, and offers flexibility to members along with plenty of mentorship to regulars.

