Mission Statement:
Stuy Bricks aims to create a space for anyone to express their interest and passions in all things LEGO.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We plan to have in-person meetings at Stuy twice a month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Bricks is a place that brings together students interested in LEGO, whether it be collecting, building, or just having fun. We are welcoming to everyone, no matter if you have a massive collection, like to build with spare pieces, or even if you’ve never had a LEGO set! Members will be able to engage in various activities during our meetings, including: instructional lessons (focused on LEGO collector websites, LEGO history, custom LEGOs, etc.), collections/trading days (opportunities for members to bring in pieces of their own LEGO collection to show others and even trade with other club members), and building days (free play time with loose LEGO bricks provided by the club). Stuy Bricks also plans on hosting an annual schoolwide LEGO building competition, allowing students to create their own LEGO creations and showcase them to their fellow club members and the Stuy community as a whole. The winner of the competition will be rewarded with a LEGO prize from the club. Stuy Bricks is a low commitment club. However, we ask that members make an effort to come to all meetings as it will help foster the Stuy Bricks community. Not only will members have fun connecting with other students who share the same hobby as them, members will also make Stuy Bricks a more fun, enjoyable, and welcoming place for everyone.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy Bricks provides a creative, fun, and engaging outlet for students after working hard all day in academic classes. As two LEGO loving TFOLs (Teenager Fans of LEGO), we know how LEGO may be an odd hobby or interest to many. However, we bring together all LEGO loving Stuy kids to have fun with each other and LEGOs. Our club fosters creativity and teamwork skills, often very useful later in life, through the very nature of playing with LEGOs. Stuy Bricks can also help reduce stress as there is something so satisfying about putting together small little bricks to make something really interesting and unique. In addition, Stuy Bricks allows members to expand upon an interest that they already had or to learn about a potential new hobby. Members with giant LEGO collections will have people to talk all things LEGO to, whether it be about the latest new sets or everything that LEGO is doing wrong. For members who just like to be around LEGO, we have plenty of bricks for you to use during meetings and other members will always be around to inspire your next creation. We want to appeal to Stuy students of all interests in the LEGO field through our club activities and culture. Stuy Bricks is an amazing way to meet other Stuy students who share the same passion as you!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Stuy Bricks has limited leadership positions due to the low commitment nature of the club. There will be a president and a vice president (or two co-presidents) who are in charge of scheduling meetings, organizing club activities, and communicating with members. The president will be chosen through an application sent at the end of the school year.. The Stuy Bricks secretary will be responsible for tracking and managing the club’s LEGO bricks as well as transporting the club’s LEGO bricks if needed for a meeting. Like the president, the secretary will be chosen through an end–of-year application .Should the president, vice president, or secretary not be performing his/her duties to the extent that was expected when appointed president, club members may vote on removing the president from his/her position and may vote to appoint a new president Lastly, members with significant knowledge or expertise related to LEGO and dedication to the club may be appointed as Master Builder by the club’s president and vice president (or co-presidents). Master Builders will act as an all around helper and expert for Stuy Bricks. In order to qualify for leadership positions, the member must display tremendous responsibility, dedication, and kindness. All members are expected to behave with kindness and respect (both to other members and to club LEGOs). Stuy Bricks was created to make a space for students to have fun playing with LEGOs and we hope all members who join will continue promoting our mission.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Bricks is the only club at Stuyvesant that focuses on all things related to LEGO! We will host a wide variety of activities during our meetings that members will definitely enjoy! Everyone in the club will share (one of) the same interests as you, making it easy to find and connect with new people. Stuy Bricks always wants to hear how we can improve our club to make the experience more enjoyable to all students. What may seem as a mere children’s toy, there is so much more to LEGO that many don’t realize!

