Mission Statement:
This organization is about helping people make the most of the 3D printing services that Stuy offers and ensuring that 3D printing at Stuy stays free.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will be in the Innovation lab during 10th period as well as after school most days

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The primary purpose of this club is to allow people to design and print anything they want to create by using CAD. Anyone can use the 3D printers in the Innovation Lab, despite them mainly being for Science Olympiad. Our goal is to make sure that the 3D printers stay available as a resource for everyone, as they are extremely helpful for personal projects. Also, we want to make people aware that they can use the 3D printers, as currently they are quite hard to find and the Innovation Lab makes them seem exclusively for Science Olympiad. We also aim to help people learn how to use CAD, as being able to CAD is an extremely useful tool in designing and creating anything. Also, we will teach people how to maintain the 3D printers, as they require regular maintenance. Overall, we hope to get people interested in the engineering and design process, from the first step of learning CAD. This club will also work with hospitals in order to provide free prosthetics for children as an act of community service.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This club aims to make the printers accessible to anyone by guiding them through using the specialized software needed for printing. This will let more people use the printers and lower the failure rate for the printers by making sure that all prints are configured correctly. This club will also formalize the maintenance schedule of the printers, making sure they are well cared for. Because no one club controls the printers, the maintenance history of the printers has been spotty and as a result the printers are starting to break down. The club will take over repair and maintenance from the Science Olympiad team, which currently cares for them. Also, we will provide assistance to people who are struggling with classes such as Drafting and Woodworking, where CAD is a necessary skill to have. In addition to this, being able to print parts can be useful for a variety of subjects, such as biology or chemistry. 3D printed parts can also be useful for personal projects as well, as things like art projects, chess pieces, and cups! Being able to look into printing prosthetics for children will be an interesting and helpful experience for many members of the community who wish to help support a cause in this small way.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The founding members will be the leaders for the first year. At the end of the first year, Leaders will be chosen by rank-choice voting, with the previous year's leaders' votes counting three times. Knowledge and skill will hopefully be selected for in the voting, but extra training will be provided to the new leaders before the end of the year. The leaders will be expected to set meetings, train new members, and maintain the printers. 
Members can join at any time of the year. The club reserves the right to remove members or leaders if they are not acting in accordance with club rules and expectations. Members can be removed if the leaders reach a consensus. Leaders will be removed by Impeachment. 
Impeachment of the leadership will need a 3/4 majority vote. If an impeachment vote fails, at least two weeks must elapse before it can be brought up again. If a vote passes, the leaders must step down (unless the club leaders can land a bottle flip first try, in which case they will be totally exonerated) and open election will take place.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club is unique in that it will allow people to use the 3D printers without the commitment required by clubs like Science Olympiad and Robotics. Also, we will provide assistance for people struggling with engineering and design classes in terms of CAD help. Also, this is the only club at Stuyvesant that will explicitly teach how to maintain a 3D printer. This club is unique in that it will allow people to ask us to make things and we can do it for free.

