Mission Statement:
StuyInterviews plans to host trivias, reaction videos, podcasts, guest speakers, social experiments, debates, comical relief, and much more!

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
StuyInterviews plans to host monthly meetings (on the 1st, with exceptions from time to time) for the leaderboard, to check in with members, and brainstorm event ideas for the coming month (virtual). Additionally, short meetings throughout the year (three times a month: roughly 15 minutes; virtual and in-person) will be held with volunteers/general members to receive data/responses in order to act on certain topics/events and receive feedback. As for podcasts and guest speakers (virtual), it can be decided based on the interviewee.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
In general, Stuyvesant students may be consumed with their busy academic and after-school activities. As such, they may feel that they don’t have an opportunity to share their perspectives on any topics, from very casual and relatable to personal and deep, with anyone really. Considering the situation of the past two years, it’s been hard for many of us to open up, due to our lack of social development. This club believes that it’s important to open up and share different perspectives with one another, as it improves individuals socially, emotionally, mentally, and academically. As such, this club provides an open, judge-free, and friendly environment for students to do just that. If students feel comfortable, they can discuss any and every topic, such as interviews, podcasts, and trivias, they’d like. StuyInterviews plans to gather a wide range of student volunteers to discuss the topic of the month. StuyInterviews intends to record these podcasts, interviews, and trivia and edit them to make them both informative and interesting once shared with the entire Stuyvesant community at the end of the month.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
As students in Stuyvesant, exploring different people’s perspectives on all sorts of topics, ranging from authors to scientists is incredibly thrilling. As such, students take courses in European Literature, World History, Physics, and more. All these courses are designed by individuals from two or more generations ago. So, students aren’t able to gain true insight into the current generation. Also, students don’t gain insight into their very own peers' perspectives, as these courses are aligned to a specific disciplinary study. They don’t allow for the discussion of mental, social, and physical development, which students definitely need due to the unforeseen circumstances of the past two years. However, this club would do just that and much more. This club would not only allow students to gain insight from their very own peers undergoing the same situations as them but also allow them to build lasting friendships. Volunteers can choose to discuss any topic, ranging from casual to personal, that they feel comfortable with, and many of the volunteers are bound to share similar perspectives with one another. As the volunteers begin to recognize this, they may form strong, lasting friendships with one another, which would be another outlet for them to share their unique personalities and perspectives with one another.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There are five available leadership roles, with a maximum of two people per role: Manager/Interviewer, Outreach Director, Content Creator, Filmer/Editor, and Web/Graphic-Designer. The Manager/Interviewer ensures that other leaders are on track and interviews all volunteers. The Outreach Director contacts potential volunteers through Instagram and Email. The Filmer/Editor records all interviews and edits them to be published as a post, intended to be shared with all members of the club. The Content Creator generates event ideas (such as “Why Stuy?”) and formulates documents to help ideas come to life. The Web/Graphic-Designer is responsible for creating a website where all publications will be updated and creates posters for all upcoming events. Potential applicants can apply for a role(s) via a google form that will be sent out through Instagram & StuyActivities as a post. Afterward, applicants can expect an interview (rough 10 minutes) to brainstorm ideas for upcoming events, and to test their creativity of the applicants. Leadership results will be announced soon after. Failing to abide by role promises will result in one strike. After three strikes, the presidents will be forced to replace the student with another applicant for the said role.

What makes this activity unique?:
As a whole, high school students are barely exposed to the perspectives of their generation, let alone of their own school. The uniqueness of this club is that it joins the desires of not only those interested in the psychology field but also those interested in media! The topics covered will be very varied ranging from social experiments to serious, real-world-issue conversations. The presidents of this club have also planned much ahead and predict to be very active throughout the year (approx. three times per month).

