Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Key Club is centered around providing students with opportunities to serve their community, build character, and develop key skills.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Thursdays or Fridays - Stuyvesant Key Club meets twice a month, one meeting being a general meeting for updates and important events and the other being a service project!

Beyond that, divisionals with Key Clubbers across Manhattan and the Bronx are scheduled for once a month. Service Projects are typically scheduled for every weekend for the entirety of the year, however the amount you attend is completely up to you!

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Key Club is an international student-led community service organization centered around community building and volunteering. This organization is dedicated to bettering their community by presenting members with the opportunity to volunteer at service projects across the city and state. Members have the opportunity to volunteer in-school as well, whether in collaboration with the Student Union, PTA, Administration or individual clubs and organizations. 

In addition to volunteering, Stuyvesant Key Club also plans and organizes numerous fundraisers for international charities such as Thirst Project, a non-profit organization known for providing clean water to areas where it is inaccessible, and UNICEF, a non-profit organization advocating for children’s rights and their health in over 190 countries. Beyond that, Stuyvesant Key Club also raises funds for causes meaningful to them such as the National Network of Abortion Funds and Black Artist Iniative. From fundraising for international charities to local causes, Key Clubbers help make a difference in the world and leave a lasting impact. 

Key Club is a club where members can form friendships and make connections not only in Stuy, but also with Key Clubbers all throughout the city, the state, the country, and even other parts of the world. General members are expected to volunteer at service projects, whether in school or out of school, and also attend club meetings throughout the school year. Members are also encouraged to attend and help out with fundraisers to help raise money for incredible causes. Overall, the level of commitment and dedication for Key Club is completely up to the members themselves, as they can choose which meetings and service projects they would like to attend. If members would like to take a bigger part, they can apply for leadership positions both in their home club and on a division/district level.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Key Club is a valuable asset to the Stuyvesant community because it promotes leadership, character building, caring, and inclusiveness—our four core values. 

We offer numerous opportunities for members to take on a leadership role, including being a project captain who oversees volunteers at events, directing or serving on one of our four committees, being an executive cabinet member, or even leading the entire state on the New York District board. These leadership positions, whether big or small, help Key Clubbers to gain real skills that can not only help them in Key Club but also in Stuyvesant and in the real world. 

Key Club also provides its members with numerous opportunities around the globe. From networking with nonprofit leaders to earning internationally acclaimed scholarships and awards, these opportunities set up Key Clubbers for life beyond High School. 

Volunteering at Key Club events allows members to serve and give back to their communities. When volunteering, members often have the chance to meet Key Clubbers from other schools in New York City and even other parts of the world, forming new friendships and new connections which builds our members’ sense of community and teamwork. Even after graduating, Key Clubbers have the option of joining Circle K, which is essentially the college version of Key Club, and another branch of the Kiwanis family. Beyond Circle K, they can join Kiwanis, and continue making an impact on communities as an adult. By first joining Key Club, members can go on to become altruistic members of their community not only in high school but throughout their lives.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Executive Cabinet—composed of the President, the Vice President, the Secretary, the Treasurer, the Webmaster, and the Editor—is chosen by Key Club members through a democratic election that takes place in late January or early February. Members interested in having a position will first fill out an application and complete an interview to ensure their capability of serving in such a high-stake role. Afterwards, the candidates will present a short speech in front of those that attend the election meeting and those members will be voting for the candidate that they think will best serve the position out of all the candidates running for that position. Those who are running for a leadership position must be a dues-paying member of Key Club International so they can be registered with Key Club International after being elected. 

In terms of impeachment, five members of the Executive Cabinet (which is the entire cabinet except for the person being impeached) must agree that the current officer is not doing what is expected of them and should be impeached. Someone else will be either selected by the five remaining members of the Executive Cabinet or elected by the members at another meeting to fill the vacancy, depending on the situation. For the Board of Directors, the process to become a committee director is an application and an interview process. Applicants will be interviewed by members of the Executive Cabinet and committee directors will be selected after taking into consideration both the application and the interview. If a committee director is chosen but is not fulfilling their assigned responsibilities, they will be cut and a new director will be chosen by the Executive Cabinet.

What makes this activity unique?:
What makes Key Club unique is how truly international of an organization it is. Members can volunteer at service projects and attend fundraisers with Key Clubbers outside of Stuyvesant, from schools like Bronx Science, Brooklyn Tech, and many more. Key Clubs are found in countless schools throughout the city, allowing members to serve their community with people they might already know from other schools and of course, see lots of new faces and make new friends. Key Clubs can also be found throughout the world, where members can meet Key Clubbers from all over, especially if you go for higher positions outside of Key Club. From the citywide Fall Rally to the statewide Leadership Training Conference, and even the Key Club International Convention, Key Club is also unique because of the conferences and conventions that are held in addition to service projects and fundraisers. These events allow Key Clubbers to learn new skills and establish connections with a wide variety of Key Clubbers, from other parts of New York State to other parts of the country. 

Even though to many, Key Club is just another community service organization, there is a lot more than just volunteering it has to offer. That includes fundraising for awesome causes, attending large-scale conventions, celebrating our yearly accomplishments at events through awards, and meeting people from all over the world who can become lifelong friends. Key Club is not just a club, but a way of life and a welcoming family anyone can turn to.

