Mission Statement:
We aim to provide an environment and community for students to immerse themselves in the creating and learning choreography.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We plan to meet at least once or twice a month, but more meetings can be added based on how many people there are who want to share choreography. More meetings can also be added if we are able to collaborate with other organizations or clubs to host events or charity fundraiser classes.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Choreo is a club centered around choreographing and learning dance. While much of our influence has been from hip-hop, our choreography can be influenced by all genres and styles, depending on the choreographer. At Stuy Choreo, we host workshops featuring choreography created by artists within the Stuyvesant dance community. Through seasonal classes, we help both aspiring and experienced dancers grow, and provide a judgment-free space for them to learn from other dancers or unleash their own creativity! In addition to dancing, we discuss culture, foundations, and our own interests around dance and choreography. We also share opportunities for dancers to grow outside of the club and connect them with the dance community outside of Stuyvesant High School. Members of the club may attend meetings on their own accord. There are no requirements or restrictions in becoming a member of Stuy Choreo. Our only rules are for members to be supportive and friendly to others, and to attend with an open mind!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy Choreo provides dancers and artists with a judgment-free space to explore dance and the world around it. For choreographers, Stuy Choreo offers opportunities to lead workshops, enabling them to exercise their creativity, practice teaching and public speech, and help other students grow. For aspiring dancers, Stuy Choreo creates a beginner-friendly environment to introduce dancers of all levels to choreography with zero pressure to commit. For all members, Stuy Choreo is a place to find a community, and to meet and have fun with others who share the same interest in dance. More importantly, it is a place to unwind from stress and school through movement and music. Most dance classes outside are costly, can be intimidating to sign up for, or are at inconvenient times, especially for busy students during the school year. However, Stuy Choreo creates similar environments right in our own school building (and in this case, online), and they are free. In addition, Stuy Choreo helps dancers prepare for student productions at Stuyvesant, such as Stuy Squad, SING!, and SOS by hosting meetings in the off-season. From a social perspective, Stuy Choreo is also a contributor against the impression that students in Stuyvesant High School are only intellectuals. We enable students to explore outside of academics into the world of performing arts.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leaders and board members are elected by previous leaders through yearly applications. There are no restrictions or requirements to apply, but candidacy will be judged by an applicant’s ability to lead the club, manage logistics, and contribute to the community in line with our mission, as determined by previous boards. Leaders can be replaced or reconsidered if they fail or do not attempt to facilitate the club as described above. Leaders can and will also be impeached if they are found to be disrupting the safe space created for artists and dancers at Stuy Choreo.
While there are no specific rules for members, all attendees are always expected to be supportive and non-judgemental, both during and outside of Stuy Choreo meetings. If any members are found behaving inappropriately at Stuy Choreo meetings or in the Stuy Choreo Facebook group, they will be banned from both club meetings and the online group. This includes, but is not limited to, bullying, teasing, harassment, and discrimination.

What makes this activity unique?:
While Stuy Choreo is not the only dance club, our highlight is our focus on sharing creativity. Despite our hip-hop influence, we do not limit our members to one style and instead, encourage exploration. The community within Stuy Choreo is connected to the Stuyvesant dance community: numerous productions and associations within Stuyvesant, such as Stuy Squad, SING!, SOS, and outside Stuyvesant. The network created by current members and a very large body of alumni connects members to a greater dance community beyond the walls of Stuyvesant. This allows members to be even more inspired to continue dancing and choreographing even after their time in high school.

