Mission Statement:
Stuy Open Mic strives to be a low-commitment place where everyone can share something they've been working on!

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet  usually one to two times a month on mostly fridays.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy open mic is a space where people can show off any talent that they have or anything that they want to share with a larger audience. Bring something you wrote, something you drew, a song or a dance number you know, a presentation, a story, or anything else at all that you can think of. Also, a guitar will be provided at the meetings for anyone who knows a song on guitar. Stuy open mic will meet twice a month usually on fridays (or on the last day of the week if there is no school on friday.) We are very low commitment -- just show up whenever you can and whenever you have something to share or want to see / hear what other people have to share! We aim to form a community of people who feel they can bond over a shared interest in whatever they enjoy.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy open mic will benefit the stuyvesant community by being a space that aims to make people feel like they can share and / or explore their own talents and learn about what other people can do as well. We would also provide something that can give students a means of respite from a long day / week of working and studying. Additionally, by definition we are a very open and welcoming space, and we also want to help people discover their own abilities more and perhaps find groups of people who enjoy the same things as they do, allowing connections to be made by people who have shared interests. Through the open mic, students can also practice speaking or performing publicly or in front of a group of people, which can build individual confidence and empower other students to do the same. Our goal is that at the end of every meeting, everyone will feel that their voice has been sufficiently heard and to potentially be inspired by other people as well. We expect to be a fairly small community and we also hope that this can allow people to develop connections within the whole group that shows up as well.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions: There will be two co-presidents, both of which are current juniors and will pass on the roles to someone else at the end of their senior year. ( This is also how the club got handed down to the current president after the last one graduated last year. ) The co presidents will be responsible for planning meetings and booking the room for meetings. There are no specific protocols general members are expected to follow. Presidents will be removed if they can no longer attend meetings on the appointed day ( likely friday ) at all or if they are not in attendance at three consecutive meetings. In the case in which they miss three consecutive meetings, a new co president would be elected by popular vote. A vote would be held at the next meeting after the previous co president was un-appointed. The vote would be between two or three members who regularly attend meetings.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy open mic is the only club that gives people a chance to share anything that they created without having a higher level of specificity. We do not have any set requirements or expectations for what people can or should bring, so we can also act as a sounding board of sorts for any ideas people have or talents that they feel they have not yet found a niche for somewhere else inside or outside of stuyvesant.

