Mission Statement:
Educating students on economic crises and incorporating insight into financial decisions today.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings are once a month, always on Tuesdays. Exact dates can be found here:https://linktr.ee/stuyfec

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyvesantFEC plans to educate students on economic crises (past and current events of all scales - anywhere from the 2023 collapse of Silicon Valley Bank to the 1973 OPEC Oil Price Shock). The goal is to assist students in researching and understanding how industries survive from financial crises and how as consumers, students can plan and take advantage of current events. Students will be able to incorporate insight into financial decisions today through different means including investments in the stock market (index fund comparisons) and general personal budgeting decisions. Students will have access to all resources from all of the chartered schools under Financial Economic Crises Association (currently: Bronx Science, Brooklyn Tech, Manhattan Center, Townsend, and Hunter). These resources include exclusive invitations to board-wide events that range from guest speakers to general lessons from professionals in the field. Overall, by the end of the year, students can expect a better understanding of the field of economics and finance and use that information to make more informed decisions in their day-to-day lives with their money.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyvesantFEC will benefit the Stuyvesant community by helping students learn about economic crises and give them an understanding about financial decisions made today! Students interested in finance and just learning about economic crises around the world can join and learn many new things about the past and learn about new developments being made in the finance department of the world! Students can use what they learn to help them lead their finance and business decisions everyday. It is really important that students around Stuyvesant gain knowledge about economic crises happening around the world and ones that have happened in the past. This can be a huge learning experience for them to decide how to handle their finance issues so that those crises won't happen again in the future. Stuyvesant students will become aware of how important it is to make sure they are leading a healthy financial life and using what we teach them in our club will make sure they make the right decisions when it comes to the world's economy and finance! Additionally, a focus on crises is difficult to find yet so incredibly valuable to learn about. Not only will there be economic crises covered, but also definitions that relate so students will be able to participate in economics-related discussion throughout their time at high school and beyond.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The president and vice president are the original founders of the club. The appointment procedure for the remaining secondary position is through a google form sent out later in the school year with an interview proceeding. Acceptances are on a rolling basis, with two available spots for each role. Leadership options are: content creators (in other words, managers), outreach directors, events coordinators, and media chairs. Managers help the presidents create presentations and help research different current events. Outreach directors are responsible for seeking charters from other schools throughout New York City. They are also expected to aid in garnering members within Stuyvesant. The events coordinators help create the board-wide events by seeking experts in the field through emailing invitations with Eventbrite. They are expected to post these meetings on YouTube. Media chairs ensure the club is active on socials. They create group chats when necessary. They post on Facebook and on study to remind members of upcoming meetings. Impeachment occurs through strikes. Incompletion of tasks and unexcused absences result in a strike. Tasks will have at least a week of a deadline to ensure sufficient completion time. activities

What makes this activity unique?:
Our organization is unique because StuyvesantFEC covers a broad range of economic crises around the world leading up to many different financial decisions being made to the present day. Our organization won't just focus on the past, but it will also focus on how students can change their habits to make the present economic world a lot better. Through attending our meetings and our information sessions, Stuyvesant students will learn how to make correct financial decisions and how these can have a positive impact on the economic and financial parts of the world.

