Mission Statement:
Our mission is to introduce the performing art of Chinese yo-yo to the Stuyvesant community!

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, but we will usually meet at least twice a month, and more frequently if preparing for a show.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Our club will provide a welcoming community where anyone can try out or learn how to use Chinese yo-yo. The Chinese yo-yo, also known as the diabolo, is a performing art that originated in ancient China and now is practiced as a modern performing art all around the world! Leaders and experienced club members will work with students to teach them tricks and how to properly and safely use this fun skill toy. This will serve as an outlet for students to both learn a new skill and discover a place where they can meet others with similar interests. At the end of the year, our group members will work together to choreograph and organize an act in the school talent show, SOS! Through taking part in this choreography, students may also learn more advanced tricks and how to cohesively yo-yo as a group along to music. Overall, our club is a space where students can learn new tricks together, bond with others over diabolo, and even perform in SOS if they want to!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Playing with the Chinese yo-yo is a great way to improve both the body and the mind. It helps to improve both hand-eye coordination and motor skills. It also serves as a stress reliever and can improve overall mental health. It teaches people how to be more patient and consistent as it requires a lot of practice. 
Chinese yo-yo also gives people a chance to exercise in a non-traditional way, making it a fun opportunity for people to improve those skills while also learning something unique. Learning how to yo-yo is a fun way to explore a traditional performing art. Experimenting with new tricks and putting together solo/group choreographies are a great way to improve confidence and teamwork. It can also serve as a great creative outlet since the possibilities are endless. Additionally, although Chinese yo-yos are quite expensive, our club provides members with yoyos so it is a great place to start if you are slightly interested. Not only that, it is very easy to start learning and is beginner friendly. The no-strings-attached (haha do you see that pun) nature of Chinese yo-yo as well as the relaxed atmosphere this club will maintain will make it a great environment for students to wind down and focus on things other than academics and other stressors.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions include two to three co-presidents, though board members may change the board setup depending on how they want to appropriately manage the club, all of which share logistical and leadership responsibilities. The leaders are responsible for sending out club announcements; acquiring and being responsible for equipment such as diabolos, sticks, and string; organizing and leading meetings; teaching club members proper safety measures; and, perhaps most importantly, teaching tricks. The leaders must be knowledgeable in Chinese yo-yoing and be both friendly and approachable to club members.
 Club members will be able to vote for new board members at the end of the year after hearing each candidate give their pitch as to why they should lead the club. These candidates will also be interviewed, so that prior board members can make sure that they are a good fit for all aspects of the board. This will act as quality control as well as a way to avoid turning voting into a popularity contest. 
Group members may also impeach leaders at any time if they feel the person is improperly doing their job or abusing their power. If complaints are voiced to a board member, then the board will organize an anonymous vote with all of the club members. If 60% or more of the votes do call for impeachment of the leader in concern, impeachment will succeed. If any club members are deemed to be harmful to the community (e.g. insulting, not cooperating with others, or deliberately not following safety measures) by the leaders, they will get a warning which can lead to being kicked out of the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
Though there are other clubs that include the use of diabolos, our club is the only club that exclusively focuses on all aspects of the art of Chinese yo-yo, both as a performance art and a skill toy. Chinese yo-yo is commonly seen in the circus and is a traditional performing art which can be used during all times of the day. Chinese yo-yo is also a practice that uses every part of your body, and there are endless possibilities when considering tricks! There are also many variations of Chinese yo-yos (single cup, dragon tail, multiple on one string, fire/light up ones))

