Mission Statement:
RTSWS is a financial & investment literacy program designed to spark the interest of a diverse population of high school girls into careers in finance

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, but we mostly meet on Tuesdays after school, on a weekly basis.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
To close the gender gap in wages, wealth accumulation and in financial professions, we have to inspire girls to pursue the M in STEM, by exposing them to real-life, positive money management role models. RTSWS sparks girls’ interest at a critical juncture in their lives, pre-college planning, and expands their perceptions of what a person who works in finance looks like beyond the traditional stereotypes. 
RTSWS mentors offer college and career path guidance to our students. We are effectively changing the student to guidance counselor ratio from a national average of 482:1 to 2:1. This has a multiplier effect on the career and lifetime trajectories of our students, especially those from underserved schools. Our female volunteers provide social capital to students who otherwise would not be connected to pros in the financial field. Student cohorts are being built among the girls and industry connections are eliminating the barriers to women entering M in STEM professions. Since launching in 2013, more than 3,000 girls have graduated from the year-long program.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
RTSWS gets girls re-engaged with the M in STEM, math, at a critical age, when they are on the verge of becoming financially independent; choosing whether or not to go to college; what college they will choose, and which majors/minors they will study.
 
Female financial professionals lead classroom workshops on money management and more during a five-week period. Our cutting-edge, open-sourced curriculum rips from the headlines, discusses public policy, economic policy, and stock and bond markets. Workshops have covered topics from credit card debt to auto financing to blockchain. Hands-on financial projects including lifetime budgeting, spending while in college, allocating paycheck deductions, evaluating company stocks and bonds, stock market updates, salary negotiation, saving, and investing for retirement. Speakers, workshops, and presentations from female financiers and entrepreneurs; field trips to financial services firms, banks, state and corporate treasury departments, entrepreneur centers, and more. Rock The Street, Wall Street engages with the local financial community. We facilitate exclusive connections where possible, providing unique opportunities to participants. As participants, girls have access to this supportive and engaged local network of teachers, mentors, professionals, and fellow students. These bonds extend far beyond the duration of the program, providing participants with lifelong connections and a strong support system to achieve their goals.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Student CEOs are the only student leadership positions. Student CEOs are appointed through an application and interview. If chosen for an interview, applicants must interview and await results. From year to year, Student CEOs have to reapply if they would like to continue in their position and anyone from the Stuyvesant RTSWS chapter can apply. The Student CEOs work together as a duo.


Members of RTSWS are expected to attend weekly meetings, commit to projects, and partake in field trips. They are encouraged to take advantage of our unparalleled resources. We invite professionals from top firms to mentor students, and we hope students can gain a better understanding of careers while gaining exclusive connections and expanding their networks.


If a Co-CEO is not showing up to mandatory meetings or participating in discussions, they will receive a strike and a warning. Once they amount to three strikes they will be demoted back to general member and we will conduct a new interview search for their replacement.

What makes this activity unique?:
RTSWS programs inspire and equip girls with the skills to succeed financially and potentially pursue a career in finance. Girls learn not only about budgeting and spending, (where most financial literacy programs end), they also learn about savings and investments. We do this through classroom workshops led by female financial professionals, coaching, and field trips. We are one of the fastest-growing financial literacy high school programs focusing on just girls, in 2018 we doubled the number of cities where we have programs. RTSWS engages industry sponsors and volunteer instructors to educate students on real-world personal financial management practices, college paths, and career opportunities. We make learning fun by ripping from the headlines, role-playing, hands-on team projects, and exposure to positive money management.

