Mission Statement:
Our goal is to provide a friendly community of like-minded peers for ethusiasts to learn more about concepts of AI and it's applications.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule can vary from at least one meeting a month to one a week. Meetings can be held in-person in Stuyvesant High School or online in our Discord Server

What is the purpose of this activity?:
This is an interest club that focuses on the industry of Artificial Intelligence (AI), more specifically generative AI, such as ChatGPT. We hope to understand its uses and impact on the world, how it functions, and most importantly, to teach high school students about what it is, and the many opportunities that we have to use it. We offer a warm community and easy-to-access resources that allows people to come together to discuss and learn more about the recent breakthroughs of the AI industry, and how we can utilize the power of AI, as well as a way to stay updated on their development. Meetings will be held at least once a week, either in-person or on the club Discord server, where members can get quick updates on A.I. We will also try to reach out to experts and scholars in the A.I. industry to share their experiences and knowledge. Our main forum will be found on Discord, where people around the world can join in on conversations. As this is a low-commitment club, members are expected to attend at least one event per month, and share a common passion for A.I.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity helps the Stuyvesant community because we aim to teach curious, passionate, and/or ambitious students about the uses and applications of AI, as well as giving people a strong, fundamental understanding of how AI is created and innovated. We offer efficient resources, expertise, and ardent peers for passionate high school students that are looking to learn and be involved in the expanding field of AI and Machine Learning as well as other aspects of computer science. Our club also holds an interest hotspot, as we run a Discord server online. This allows for not only Stuy students, but people from around the world to join in and share their opinions on current discussions, and this grants an opportunity for an expansion beyond Stuyvesant and creates further connections for the community. To add on, our business and social team will occasionally reach out to guest speakers, interns, and scholars from the A.I. industry and invite them to host seminars and share their knowledge and experiences for the members of the club, and this allows for our community to have access to reliable and legitimate information.  In addition, this club will help students understand the impact of A.I. on education and career paths, and possibilities that are offered.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions consist of the "President", "Vice-presidents (Board of Directors)", "honorary members", "helpers", and "members". When a person is first admitted into the club, they are given the regular "member" role. The next role is "helpers", which are people selected through an application process that is checked by the "President" and "Board of Directors". These individuals are highly-committed members of the club that have shown dedication and are trusted to help with the hosting of meetings and the moderation of events, as well as running the Discord Server. Following this are the honorary members. These people are granted distinction either because of their expertise in the field of computer science and A.I., or because they show exceptional dedication to the club. Honorary members can also consist of scholars and alumni from outside the school, who have been invited to share their knowledge for members. As stated before, this club aims to offer a community of enthusiasts to all high school students, so this allows for people outside of Stuyvesant to join in. After this, there’s the “Vice-presidents”. These individuals are selected by the President to help run and manage the entirety of the club. They are ones who can be selected for the transfer of leadership. Lastly, the “president” is the leader of the club, and he/she is expected to run the club smartly and efficiently. The president is expected to host meetings, manage the Discord server, and search for opportunities for the club. When the president is attending his/her last year at Stuyvesant, a meeting will be held between the president and the vice-presidents on deciding who will be the next president. It is required for the president to select a vice-president that is at least one grade-year younger than him/her, so allows for a certainty for leadership transfer. The vice-president role can be removed based on the president’s decision, and the president’s role can be removed based on the decision of the entire club. If the majority of the club agrees that the president isn’t doing his job to meet the expectations, they can cast a vote to impeach the current president. If at least 70% of the club votes on impeachment, then the current president will be removed, and a new one will be selected based on the decision from the Board of Directors.

What makes this activity unique?:
Our interest club is unique firstly because our goal is to teach students around the world about what AI is about - We will discuss how AI is created and improved, as well as diving into it's applications and what we can use AI to accomplish. The potential for AI is incredibly vast, and as it further develops, it  will take over many large industries that we know today. Hence, the reason for why we should learn more about it. In addition, our club offers a open community that is free to join not only for Stuy students but also for other high school students that are looking to learn about A.I. The forum that we set up on discord allows for fast and easy conversations, as well as holding information and resources.

