Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Reality Check is a youth-led club that advocates against the spread of the tobacco epidemic.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Stuyvesant Reality Check meets in person at the Stuyvesant building bimonthly (every other week). Virtual meetings may be offered as an alternative should circumstance necessitates them. Meeting schedules may vary to ensure maximum member participation.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Reality Check is the local extension of the Reality Check program under the NYC Smoke Free program of Public Health Solutions. The program is publicly funded, student-led, adult-supported, and its aim is to reduce the number of teens that initiate smoking by exposing the deceitful methods through which the tobacco industry had targeted its consumers. As the use of tobacco products in youth populations become an increasingly alarming problem for schools, parents, and students themselves, this club emerges to spread awareness and exercise prevention. Students who join the club will participate and lead activities and events. Through these events, students will educate their friends and colleagues and expose the misleading marketing campaigns of the tobacco industry, help students cultivate strong leadership in their community, advance students’ advocacy skills and convey community awareness. Stuyvesant Reality Check aims to bring together student leaders that could bring positive changes to the Stuyvesant and local communities.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant Reality Check members will be able to develop a variety of skills and unique experiences throughout their club experience, including but are not limited to developing leadership skills with opportunities to work with peers across the state, strengthening public speaking abilities, building confidence and enhance teamwork skills while meeting new friends, engaging legislators on issues that affect youth across the country, finding a safe place to explore interests and utilize talents to advocate for a cause, discovering a world full of fun experiences and new activities, fulfilling service requirements to attract perspective colleges and universities, and creating multimedia projects to educate their communities and the nation. Throughout the course of one's experience with the club, members will be able to participate in activities that are not offered by a typical high school experience. This includes but are not limited to writing Op-Eds to be submitted to local newspaper networks, presenting to local community boards, visiting the state capitol in Albany to educate legislators, spending a few days of their summer at upstate at Keuka Park to meet with other Reality Check members from all over New York State, etc. Members will not only be able to develop personal skills and character but grow their connections as well. All in all, Stuyvesant Reality Check provides a great environment for students to explore real-world issues and advance as leaders.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Club leaders are appointed through applications submitted to the board. Following the application, a formal interview would be held with the board. Upon acceptance to their position(s), leaders will be expected to undergo a trainee period, during which they are expected to learn and become proficient in the duties of their position(s). Failure to meet these expectations will be given a strike, up to a total of three before they would be officially impeached and removed from office. If the trainees remain in good standing throughout their trainee period, they will be admitted to the board upon the termination of the trainee period. All leaders are eligible to apply for executive board positions, and all club members are eligible to apply for the leader board.*
* All applicants must be in good academic standing at the time of the application period to be eligible to apply for any positions on the leader board and/or the executive board.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant Reality Check (Stuy Reality Check) is a program that is entirely led by student leaders. Members will be able to collaborate to design, coordinate, and host events and campaigns aimed at the Stuyvesant community. Since Stuy Reality Check is a local extension of the state-wide Reality Check program, members will be able to connect with youth leaders from all over New York in state-wide events, and with other Manhattan youth leaders in local events. Stuy Reality Check is a club that makes real change. It provides an environment in which youth explores their potential and recognizes the role they play in bringing real changes to the world.

