Mission Statement:
Through creative arts, crafts, and education, Craft For a Cure aims to raise funds and support for cancer research.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Although our meeting schedule will vary throughout the year, we will meet at least 2-3 times a month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Through enjoyable arts and crafts, Craft For a Cure aims to raise money for cancer research at the American Cancer Society. During club meetings, members will work to create handmade items that will be sold during fundraisers and possibly online. Craft For a Cure seeks members with varying skills. Whether they're interested in crocheting, graphic design, jewelry making, or any other type of crafting, this club is perfect for them. By doing what they enjoy, they will be doing it for a good cause. Items that will be sold include stuffed animals, jewelry, uniquely designed apparel, phone cases, pin, keychains, mugs, etc. Craft For a Cure is also perfect for someone who isn't necessarily interested in arts and crafts. The club is looking for coordinators to spread the word, those interested in business to manage expenses, and even computer programmers to make and manage a simple online shop accessible by the Stuyvesant community. Each member is expected to contribute in some way whether it's creating the items that will be sold or managing operations. No matter what skills someone possesses, they will be a valuable part of Craft For a Cure.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Craft For a Cure is a safe space for people to flourish their talents and hang out with friends while also making a positive impact on the world. Every meeting is laid back as members get to participate in their favorite crafting activities. It doesn’t matter if someone likes crocheting while someone else strictly enjoys graphic design. Some people will be making small stuffed animals, some will design cool hoodies, and others will bead together cool pieces of jewelry. With a diverse array of hobbies, members will have the opportunity to teach each other new skills and explore new interests. Members can also take pride in their work, knowing that by simply doing what they love, they helping fund cancer research at the American Cancer Society. The profits made from the items created will be donated directly to the Society. Additionally, the items on sale will be directed toward the Stuyvesant community. Students, teachers, staff, and families can purchase the unique items that the members of Craft For a Cure create. Not only will they receive cool products, but they will also be supporting a good cause. Each of the items will be, in some way, related to the cause in order to spread awareness. For example, the designs on certain products will pertain to cancer research. Members of Craft For a Cure will also have many opportunities to share their ideas on how to improve the club and what new products to create.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There will be several different branches within Craft For a Cure. Each member can take part in whichever department they wish without any restrictions. There will be a creative section, a business section, and an outreach department. Each of these subsets will have one or two people managing it. For example, the manager(s) in the creative section will oversee everyone's work and make sure that all crafts are reasonable for the purpose of the club. That manager will, however, also be expected to produce items just like the others in the creative section. The business section will require two managers. They will be in charge of managing finances and making sure that the money earned for charity is a decent amount. They will also be responsible for overseeing that the money is properly and fully donated to the American Cancer Society. Finally, there will be leaders in the outreach department who will be in charge of getting the word around about the club. They will manage social media accounts, create posters, and organize the means of selling products. All of these leadership roles will be appointed based on applications at the beginning of a semester. Leaders will be chosen for their dedication, accomplishments, and skills specific to that section. The club as a whole will be overseen by two co-presidents who will also be chosen through applications. If a member cannot attend a meeting, they must contact the club's co-presidents with their reasoning. If a member misses more than two meetings without contacting the co-presidents, they will be automatically removed from the club. If a member is deemed unsuitable for the club by any other member, that member can inform the leaders. Then, the co-presidents and leaders of all sections will take a vote on whether to remove that member or not. A simple majority would win. Valid reasons for voting to remove a member include rowdiness, disrespect towards other members, and unproductivity (not participating in the activities). None of the leaders may vote to remove a member for personal reasons.

What makes this activity unique?:
Instead of holding typical fundraisers, members of the Craft For a Cure get to creatively express themselves while also funding cancer research. Members don't even have to consider themselves creative to join. The club consists of members with a wide variety of skills, ranging from crafting talents to business skills. Everyone gets a chance to utilize their specific talents for a good cause. 1 in 3 people is diagnosed with cancer in their lifetime. So far, the American Cancer Society has invested $5 billion in cancer research. By simply doing what they love, members of Craft For a Cure can help.

