Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Muslim Students Association strives to provide a welcoming and tolerant atmosphere for those interested in learning more about Islam.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
StuyMSA holds meetings every Friday and special events throughout the year. Special events include guest speaker meetings, game days, and chill days.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
With weekly meetings along with the occasional events both inside and outside school (such as the celebrations of the biannual holiday of Eid) that often involve interactions with other clubs, MSA aim to dispel misconceptions and provoke curiosity and awareness about Islam. MSA also serves as a support system for Muslims where they can freely discuss Islam and its current standing in today’s news, as well as the contemporary issues and concerns faced by Muslims and Non-Muslims alike. There is even a designated prayer area for students who wish to pray during school hours and hold weekly Jummuah Jamaats. With the help of passionate members, this club strives to promote a better image of Islam for a widened understanding and an improvement in our own perspective lives. StuyMSA is more than just a religious club. It aims to create a safe environment for Muslims and non-Muslim students alike to share discussions and their viewpoints, and be as inclusive as possible. Furthermore, the MSA aims to address stereotypes and stigmas around the Muslim community.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Meetings are discussion based, centered around topics, often for discussion, sometimes for didactic purposes. Media, such as videos, powerpoint presentations, and articles show different perspectives of Muslims and bring light to contemporary issues affecting the Muslim community. Social and community-service and volunteering type events such as food drives, Henna parties, Eid celebrations, and outdoor activities are held when appropriate (for example, during Islamic holidays). The MSA participates in the Muslim Interscholastic Tournament (MIST), an annual team competition for high school Muslim clubs throughout New York City, and subsequently on a national scale. School wide events, such as lectures held in a lecture hall, are also held when available. StuyMSA is also part of the Stuy UNITY Alliance with Stuy Black Students League, Stuy buildOn, Stuy Cancer Society, Stuy Free Hugs, Stuy Gay, Lesbian, & Straight Spectrum (GLASS), ASPIRA, Stuy Peer Partnership, Stuy Project Love, Stuy Red Cross, and Students Take Resolute Initiative to Vindicate the Environment. This club is willing to help and network with other clubs and their initiatives as much as it can to bring awareness towards the significance of diversity within this school. This also allows the MSA, as aforementioned, to address stereotypes and stigmas around the Muslim community.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Appointments for board members position are made by an application process. Once qualifying list of candidates are chosen from the applicant, a unanimous decision will be made by the Presidents and the Vice Presidents regarding the positions for the next board. If a board member fails to perform their tasks, one other board member must remind/reprimand them in private. If they still ignores or are unable to maintain their duties, then the issue will be raised in a board meeting and the said board member will have a chance to defend themself. Then the rest of the board will make an anonymous vote. A majority vote will expel the board member.

President - the face of the club. They expected to keep up to date with all events and administrative issues concerning StuyMSA and SPARK. They are to lead board meetings, keep tabs on the other board members and ask for their opinions, and make all final decisions. 
Vice President - takes the place of the President(s) if they are unavailable, and are essentially equal in role, though the president(s) has the final say. 
Secretary - takes minutes of all board meetings and emails those notes to the rest of the board. They will write the agendas for every meeting and email them to Angel. 
Treasurer - keeps track of MSA and MIST expenses and budget throughout the year in the form of a google excel (to be shared with the rest of the board). 
Events Coordinator - oversees the creations and participation of events inside and outside school.
Social Media Manager - promotes MSA events and meetings on various platforms to maintain consistent attendance."

What makes this activity unique?:
One of the club’s main goal is to provide a comfortable, tolerant, and engaging environment where both Muslims and non-Muslims can learn about and discuss Islam. It is imperative to dispel misconceptions and promote awareness in students about the religion. Making every single member feel comfortable allows MSA to reach that goal. It is encouraged for all members to respect each other in all aspects. Everyone has the right to share their own opinions during meetings. It is encouraged for members to give us their input and suggestions to make StuyMSA better. Students are also allowed to suggest topic ideas for upcoming meetings. Ultimately, this club is considered a family- no one gets left behind- by fostering strong bonds between members through weekly meetings, MIST, celebrations, and volunteering events.

