Mission Statement:
This club is an organization dedicated to raising awareness about mass incarceration in the US and the role of education in mitigating it’s impact.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings will occur twice a month. Additional meetings may occur based on programming needs and the availability of members.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
With over two million people in prisons and jails, the US has the highest rate of incarceration of any nation in the world. This shocking statistic is not inclusive of the 840,000 people on parole and 3.6 million people on probation. This system of mass incarceration reaches more than those in prison. It affects us all, especially the 113 million people whose immediate family members have been incarcerated. The Stuy Prison Education Club is a student volunteer organization that aims to bring attention to the widespread effects of incarceration on families and communities, particularly in New York. It will do so by bringing in speakers to share their unique experiences as well as organizing events at Stuyvesant High School. Club members will also participate in volunteer work with NYC community organizations to help those directly impacted by incarceration. Members will also partner with NYU’s Prison Education Program to further their research initiatives on the costs of incarceration.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The United States prison system affects millions of people, yet there is very little visibility about this issue at Stuyvesant. The Stuy Prison Education Club helps to benefit the Stuyvesant community by raising awareness and creating a safe space for students who may have been personally affected by mass incarceration. This will advance Stuyvesant’s mission of excellence in education by bringing unique voices into the classroom and deepening students' understanding of the inequalities within this country. At a time when many have come to recognize the importance of a diverse student body and curriculum, it is important to foster engagement with communities outside of Stuyvesant’s traditional networks. Stuy Prison Education Club will enable students to do this by emphasizing volunteer work and allowing students to form strong connections with outside organizations. Students will also benefit from working with professors at New York University who will bring a wealth of scholarly and applied knowledge. This will expose students to the most current research on this topic as well as teach students the vital skill of social justice research. Finally, Stuy Prison Education Club’s partnership with New York University will give students insights into the inner workings of the university and to college life in general.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Stuy Prison Education Club is led by 2 co-presidents. They are responsible for running meetings, communicating with membership and faculty advisors, recruiting new members, and organizing events. They will also maintain contact with the faculty research coordinator at New York University’s Prison Education Program. Each year, the co-presidents will select a community outreach coordinator, whose role will be to develop connections with outside organizations and establish volunteer opportunities. Leadership roles will be selected based on members’ participation in events and volunteer work, as well as their demonstration of commitment and initiative. Any active members who have attended both in-school and extracurricular events can be nominated for consideration. Club leadership positions will be decided by a majority vote of our members. In the event of a close vote where there is no majority, runoffs will be held with the top two candidates. The presidents will have the final say in club elections.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Prison Education Club will give students the opportunity to organize meaningful events and participate in community-building efforts about a topic of tremendous social importance that is often overlooked in a school setting. This initiative will expose members to diverse individuals who have firsthand experience and knowledge about the prison system. Additionally, Stuy Prison Education Club will prepare members for future academic work by introducing them to university-level research and allowing them to work closely with faculty members in New York University’s Prison Education Program.

