Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Honkai: Star Rail Club aims to connect students through Honkai: Star Rail, a space fantasy RPG gacha game.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule may vary throughout the year but for now we want to meet on either Mondays or Fridays.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
In the Stuyvesant Honkai: Star Rail Club, we want to build a community around a space fantasy game, Honkai: Star Rail. Honkai: Star Rail is a new turn-based RPG game with a large amount of unique characters that players can acquire; All with various bits of lore, combat skills, and phenomenal character design. We also want to build discussion around the remarkable storyline even though the game has only been out for less than a year. This club is open to new players and we welcome experienced players as well. In Stuyvesant: Honkai Star Rail Club, members can seek help and advice from other members about the lore, gacha events, and the general game. We also aim to connect Star Rail players to each other through a shared love of the many aspects of the game. Overall, Members are expected to attend meetings once a week, on either Mondays or Fridays where we will hold discussions while playing the game.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Honkai: Star Rail is a casual and fun game that does not require much gaming skills since it is a turn-based game, therefore, anyone can play. It lets students distress by offering a fun and casual game environment with other players. In this game, students can friend other students which would allow them to help each other with gathering materials in the game. This club will help students make connections with others who share a similar interest in the game and it will also introduce new players to both a fun game and allow them to meet other students within the Stuyvesant community. The game will also allow students to utilize their math skills and management skills since the game requires players to be able to manage finances to get characters that they want and to manage resources so that they can level up those characters, in order to do well in the game. For students that are artistic, they can express themselves creatively since the graphics and art in the game are really good. This club is also good for students that want to play a low commitment game for a low commitment club as a form of a break from school. The game is fairly new, yet there is so much content out in the game already, ready for students to explore and make great memories.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Generally, There are two co-presidents, a vice president, and a secretary. Every year, co-presidents and vice president positions are transferred to the next year based on applications that would be handed out during the end of spring semester. These applications would be reviewed by the current leadership with considerations regarding a member’s ability to lead and general past activity in the club. The secretary however is chosen every semester through a majority rules voting system which would most likely take place in discord. Later on in the year, we are planning to add a few more leadership positions to the club, those will also be decided via a majority rules voting system. Leaders, if need be removed can be removed by a three-fourths vote of mutiny. If at least three-fourths of the current club government or the club members believe a student leader unfit for their position, depending on the leader’s position, the club would have an early voting or applications sent out for the position. All leadership positions for now, require a minimum of 10 levels on Honkai: Star rail.

What makes this activity unique?:
Honkai: Star Rail exposes the community at Stuyvesant to a gacha game. Honkai: Star Rail offers a turn- based RPG style game that focuses on its intriguing storyline. However, the game draws most of its attention from the wide variety of characters, each with their own unique backstory and playstyle. Through the gacha system of the game, players can obtain the characters they wish to obtain and learn more about them. After obtaining these characters, players can use them to progress in the storyline. Honkai: Star Rail also offers unique and beautiful story maps that players can look forward to exploring. The amazing setting, adventure packed story and graphics allows for players to engage in art, discussion and interaction with others who also enjoy the game. We hope to invite familiar players, new players and interested students to allow themselves to take a fun break and make memories with fellow members.

