Mission Statement:
StuyBloxCreation is the place for students to create their own Roblox games! We teach various skills like scripting, modeling, user interface!

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule various throughout year, but we will meet once a week remotely.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyBloxCreation will meet once a week remotely / in person to teach everyone how to create Roblox games with our curriculum, which primarily serves to introduce how to use Roblox Studio, learn Roblox Lua for beginners, and various extra skills needed to create Roblox games such as modeling, game designing, animating, user interface! The club will hold 2 major Game Jams, at the end of each semester to showcase skills members learned through cooperatively creating Roblox Games! In Game Jams, each member of the club will use the specialized skills needed to create Roblox Games. Members do not need to have prior knowledge in game development or programming as the club will guide each member to have their unique ability that they can contribute to create successful Roblox Games. Students who are interested in game development or Roblox, in general, are welcome to join the club to learn more about game development in Roblox.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyBloxCreation aims to create an engaging environment where we encourage each member to step outside of their comfort zone and learn the process of making big projects that often require clear communication and various teamwork skills. As members create Roblox Games in the club at the end of semester Game Jams along with other members, they will learn the importance of cooperation and communication in the creation of big projects, as well as time management skills. Aside from learning the importance of teamwork, students will learn various skills that can be used in many industries, which include well - known popular skills such as programming or 3D modeling but also user interface (UI) or animating, which are all critical skills in not just creating Roblox games but in lots of other STEM projects such as designing an app or making a website. In addition to these skills, members will also learn how to manage their limited budgets needed in the game development process and various ways to advertise the game through Roblox websites and social media to create a successful game that brings profit to the creators of the game. Our curriculum allows everyone in the club to find their areas of interest in game development and how to apply them in the game development process.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
StuyBloxCreation has various leadership positions which include the president, and leaders of each department such as Scripting Department Leader and Modeling Department Leader. Leaders must have specialized knowledge in Roblox game development and should be proficient in leading the club and teaching members of the club. All leaders in StuyBloxCreation have a responsibility to create each meeting's curriculum and will lead each meeting of StuyBloxCreation, and they will also coordinate end-of-semester Game Jams. If any of the leaders of each department or the president graduates, every member will have an opportunity to apply for leadership positions through application forms and interviews. If one of the leaders fails to perform the responsibilities of being a leader or is involved in wrongful actions or hate crimes, an impeachment process will be held. In the impeachment process, half of the club has to agree on the removal of the leader through voting. Members of StuyBloxCreation should be responsible and cooperative in the club. If any of the members were involved in wrongful actions or hate crimes, victims can report that member to leaders directly. As soon as the leaders receive this report, leaders will carry out a voting process where the problematic member will be kicked out if half of the club agrees.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyBloxCreation focuses on creating Roblox games, where Roblox platforms have about 70 million daily active users worldwide. Creating and developing Roblox games often requires learning about Roblox Studio and Roblox Lua which are different from other standard and well-known methods of creating games such as Unity or other tools. Currently, in Stuyvesant, no club introduces these tools needed for Roblox Game Development so StuyBloxCreation aims to introduce game development to beginners through these tools and to create an environment for much advanced Roblox creators to carry out their own Roblox game projects. In addition to learning more about Roblox game development processes, StuyBloxCreation also will go further to provide information useful to launching a Roblox game such as advertisement, communication with other Roblox developers around the world through social media, and how to open part-time commissions to earn budgets needed to for the development process, which are all essential in creating Roblox games.

