Mission Statement:
Stuy Pediatrics aims to educate Stuy students on the physical and mental well-being of the youth and tips on how to succeed as future pediatricians.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will usually be one to two times per month. Occasionally, zoom meetings will occur in the case of school closure or other rare factors.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Many students want to become doctors, but there are no high-school courses that can offer them insight into this field. Stuy Pediatrics is dedicated to educating students about thriving in medical science, specifically as a pediatrician or pediatric surgeon. While there are other medical-related clubs, this one focuses solely on working with youth. By joining this club, students will be provided with tools, as well as hands-on experience, that will aid them in the pediatric field. Meetings will feature lessons on mental and physical illnesses in children, as well as signs to diagnose these illnesses. Members of this club will perform make-shift labs and get to explore simulations that will model their work in the future. On top of this, members will receive insight into how to pursue a career in this field. Attendance for this club is not mandatory, but given that we only meet once or twice a month, most members should try not to miss out.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy Pediatrics will benefit the Stuyvesant community by deep-diving into an area of the medical profession never before explored in this way. Students will receive insight into different areas of a child's anatomy and will be able to point to why certain illnesses may occur. They will also be able to diagnose diseases from listed symptoms. The information being learned in Stuy Pediatrics's meetings can be applied to classroom settings as well, especially science classes. We will aim to host guest speaker events later on in our club's journey which will be open to all of Stuyvesant. These events will be able to give not only our members but also other Stuyvesant students information on how to achieve a career in this field, as well as how to succeed in it. Simulations and videos will also present real-life applications of symptoms and diagnosis which will enable students to be able to recognize this on their own. Stuy Pediatrics aims to host meetings in a way that will allow the Stuy community to apply what they have learned inside those meetings to the outside world. Stuy Pediatrics hopes that the students that join this club will be better prepared for premed and a career following.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
President and vice president are already assigned. However, other leadership positions will be available. Other positions will be outreach manager(s), IT manager(s), and graphic design leader(s). We also hope to appoint leaders-in-training next year so that Stuy Pediatrics' legacy can carry on into future school years. Appointments will be conducted via open-app google forms. These applications will be anonymous- the names will be hidden from the president and vice president- so that leaders can be picked without bias being taken into account. Once the school year is over, each leader will be asked how they feel about keeping their position for the following school year. If any leader wishes to end their term or is graduating that year, a google form will open for that role. Leaders will be held to a three-strike system. Failure of a leader to respect or follow the expectations held for them will result in one strike and a warning. Three strikes will result in them losing their role as leader.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Pedriatics is unique because it focuses specifically on the pediatric and childhood development subsection of medical science. Stuy Pediatrics is based solely on studying this medical specialty and pushing our members into retrieving as much experience and knowledge in the particular area as possible. Of course, any student remotely interested in the medical field can join this club, but the main goal is to offer information for this area as opposed to the medical field as a whole.

