Mission Statement:
StuyCooks seeks to develop practical cooking skills among Stuyvesant students and explore different cooking experiences.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet one Tuesday and one Thursday every month

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyCooks aims to give its members the skills, confidence, and ideas to begin and cultivate a love for cooking. We would start the club by teaching them about fundamental home cooking practices. These introductory lessons would include kitchen tools, pantry essentials, and cutting and cooking techniques. This foundational information will give our members the necessary skill set to let them start cooking in their own kitchen. We will continue the year by leaving the home kitchen and examining the world of restaurant cooking, an entirely different environment. Nonetheless, the restaurant environment still has many skills that can be transferred to home cooking. StuyCooks also seeks to expand the horizons of what foods students eat and share an invitation to try cooking and enjoying different cultures, giving students a more comprehensive view of food and cooking. Members will cook a dish according to a rotating theme each week and present their dish alongside their recipe, experience, techniques, and some additional information, such as any personal or cultural significance of the plate. They are also expected to help other members who may not understand how or why food is cooked using certain techniques and encourage those who wish to learn more about different cultures.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Cooking is a skill that is rarely appreciated, and yet it is one of the most crucial life skills. This Club will teach students various techniques and skills in cooking, expanding students’ awareness of cooking and encouraging them to cook new foods and explore the cultures where the foods originated from. It will also increase students’ understanding of food science, why ingredients and hardware are used for cooking foods in different ways, and how to adapt recipes they find anywhere to their own needs. In this way, cooking increases the flexibility and adaptability of students, as finding substitutions or different ways to cook a dish is a challenge that requires a lot of creativity to solve. Cooking also increases students’ awareness of what they eat, as they control what they put in their food and encourages healthy eating. It breaks the stereotype that healthy eating and living are either incredibly expensive or bland. It also makes students more aware of their actions and responsibilities, as cooking involves careful attention to detail. The need to keep their cooking space tidy and clean, the necessity of consistent maintenance in the kitchen, and the ability to multitask and manage time efficiently before, during, and after cooking can transfer out into other activities as well. The relatively low stakes of cooking for themselves teaches responsibility to students. Cooking also provides a social outlet for students. Students can make friends and connections over cooking, and it can deepen friendships and relationships. Cooking for others provides an outlet for stress, and it contributes to good mental metal to see others enjoying the fruits of your labor.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The current leading members appoint two leaders. Members who would be considered for leadership applications need to show demonstrated interest in cooking and food science, show leadership qualities, and have an ability to cook and teach those skills to others. Members can nominate others using a form to recommend someone to become leader as years change, and those recommended may be considered more highly for the position. Members are expected to respect each other as well as encourage each other on their cooking journey. All cultures are to be respected. Members should not demean strange or unconventional cooking methods unless there is a clear disadvantage of using it. Limitations in cooking hardware and dietary restrictions should be respected as well. Being a leader does NOT mean that they are the best cook in the club. While skill is a factor, the ability to work well and teach others takes utmost priority, as the survival of the club is dependent on people that can clearly and respectfully share their views on cooking. Should a leader fail to meet expectations, or is no longer dedicated, they can be removed from their position by a vote, a removal requires 2/3 of the club to vote yes.

What makes this activity unique?:
No other club at Stuyvesant offers such a deep dive into cooking, and of such a broad nature and open to everyone. Because we seek to focus on cooking techniques rather than the experience of eating the food, we are not limited by a focus on one specific culture. This also allows us to apply techniques across cultures, taking the best parts of each culture and the ones that suit our needs to use. This allows students to reach out and learn about those cultures, which they might never have done without this diversity of the club.

