Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Board Games Club is dedicated to the playing and teaching of a wide range of board and tabletop games.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We meet Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the year. If we are off from school on those days, we may reschedule meetings to the nearest available date. Meetings will always be held on Fridays, Tuesday is subject to change as we observe club attendance. If attendance is low on Tuesdays, we might call off Tuesday meetings or pick a different day to hold meetings depending on our club members' availability. 

Online meetings may occur based on leadership discretion.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Board Games Club is dedicated to the playing and teaching of a wide range of board and tabletop games. Some examples include Splendor, Quantum and Coup. The club meets every Tuesday and Friday to play these and other games, using them as a way to relax and interact after the stress of the school week. The extreme stress that Stuyvesant students sometimes find themselves under makes this a key role of the club. The club is also dedicated to providing a welcoming space for all students; it accepts all members of the student body and has no commitment requirements. The club also aims to expand awareness and knowledge of board and tabletop games by teaching them to new members, and by allowing members to bring in their own games and teach them to the rest of the club. This allows the club to expand its knowledge over time as members learn how to play more and more games from one another.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The club works to benefit the Stuyvesant community in three main ways. First, it provides a place for students to relax and de-stress after a long week of work. This is highly important as the environment of Stuyvesant can be both emotionally and physically debilitating, and periods of relaxation like those provided by the club’s weekly meetings are necessary to maintain the health of the school’s students. Second, the club provides a place for people who are interested in board and tabletop games to find others who share their interests, and to play with those people. The Stuyvesant Board Games Club owns not just mainstream, run-of-the-mill board games, but also more niche games that a person with a particular interest in board or tabletop games might be interested in. Third, since games of the type typically played here require several people, the Stuyvesant Board Games Club welcomes anyone who, whether new to Stuyvesant or not, is looking for a fun way to interact with the community and make new friends, in or outside of their grade. 

Overall, StuyBGC is a club that welcomes anyone and everyone. It is a very laid-back club, and is a great place for board game enthusiasts, people looking to join a club and make new friends, and everyone else, really.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There is a minimum of two leadership positions in the Stuyvesant Board Games Club. These consist of one president and one or more vice-presidents. Each spring, the president(s) for the next school year are chosen by a ranked-choice vote by the active members of the club. Active members are members who attend at least eight meetings after January 1. Members must announce their candidacy on May 1st and all votes must be cast by May 31st. Leadership may choose to veto any candidates they feel would not be fit to serve in club leadership. Second place in the votes wins the vice president's office.

Leadership may choose to delegate certain responsibilities in club management (e.g. making sure that the room is kept tidy during a meeting) to other members known as secretaries. These positions may be given or revoked at any time with a given reason and with a vote between the president and vice president. They do not count as leadership for the purposes of other mentions to leadership in this club, unless otherwise specified.

Leadership may be impeached if any member of the club requests a vote to do so, explaining why the leader(s) should be removed. If more than two-thirds of the club's active members agree (if this occurs in fall, active-members count as anyone who has attended at least 6 meetings), the parties being impeached will be removed and replaced by a ranked-choice election that lasts one week; the candidates with the most and second-most votes become president and vice-president respectively. There is no limit on the length of time an official may serve as long as they are reelected.

What makes this activity unique?:
Our members are very dedicated to the point where the club meets voluntarily outside of scheduled school days. This allows the community to accommodate alumni members, longer events such as Tabletop Role Playing Game Sessions, and non-Stuyvesant guests. We work to foster creativity and leadership skills, while providing a place for students to relax, unwind, and enjoy board games. Because of the ability to play board games online, we can also meet when there is inclement weather or scenarios that would prevent clubs from meeting in person. Our club goes beyond Stuyvesant. Although it starts there, it is a community of its own.

