Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Armenian Club aims to foster a community of Armenians and Armenian allies interested in learning more about the culture.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule relies largely on member availability. However, Stuyvesant Armenian Club plans on meeting once every two weeks. All meetings are optional, so don't worry if you can't make one.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
As a consequence of the Armenian Genocide of 1915, the country's diaspora was significantly spread across the globe. While it is estimated that 7 to 9 million Armenians live across the world, over half live outside of Armenia, with over 1.5 million calling the United States their home. Seeking refuge, earlier generations of Armenian people were forced to find community in the new areas they settled, including the NYC area. Connecting with other Armenians has historically been challenging as many families have been forced to assimilate. This has led to a loss in traditional and ritual practices, as well as a decline in the language. This is further perpetuated by the restrictions for Americans to travel to Armenia given the security issues of the region. The Stuyvesant Armenian Club seeks to unite ethnically Armenian students and allies to learn more about the potentially lost history and customs. In this club, members will learn about Armenian culture by sharing recipes, traditions, stories, language, and food.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant Armenian Club will benefit the Stuyvesant community because not only does it foster a community for Armenians to connect, but it also allows the student body as a whole to further immerse themselves in a culture that has been historically suppressed. Many people do not even know Armenia is a country. There are many false assumptions made about the location, position, and history of the Armenian people. Controversially, many national leaders still deny the fact that 1.6 million people were killed in the genocide. The youngest generations of Armenians need to reclaim and promote this heritage. Forging newfound respect and honor is an essential part of any identity formation. As we lead the next generation for greater equity, celebrating Armenian identity is an essential part of our ongoing development. As a club, members will collectively bolster heritage and connection to Armenian culture. The promise of this club extends beyond Stuyvesant. Stuyvesant Armenian Club will attend the Armenian Genocide Remembrance Day Parade at Times Square in April, along with events organized by the Armenian General Benevolent Union. Although the Genocide is in the past, Armenia still faces opposition from their neighbors. Together Stuyvesant Armenian Club will raise money and awareness for the large Armenian population experiencing ethnic cleansing and isolation in Artsakh. We will additionally carry out charity work in the forms of bake sales and volunteering to assist those affected in the Artsakh region in Armenia.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Currently, there are two co-presidents who are juniors. By the end of their junior year, the presidents (with input from the entirety of the club) will nominate two vice presidents who are underclassmen. Throughout the following year, the vice presidents and presidents will collaborate together to ensure a seamless transition between the generations of leadership. The presidents will teach the co-presidents how to lead and organize the meetings. The vice presidents will become presidents after their predecessors graduate. As for impeachment processes, each leader gets three strikes. Anyone from the club may initiate a strike if they believe that the leader has wronged the club or been neglectful of their responsibilities. Once the three-strike threshold has been reached, the leader will be impeached. They are welcome to come to the following meetings as a member. The club as a whole will nominate a new leader to take over the impeached leader’s place.

What makes this activity unique?:
Establishing the Stuyvesant Armenian Club will be an inaugural opportunity. Although many culture clubs exist, no other Armenian club has ever existed at Stuyvesant. While this club may not attract a large number of students, its presence in the school acknowledges the diversity of the Stuyvesant student body. Armenia is an incredibly unique nation with traditions that have been upheld for millennia. Stuyvesant Armenian Club aims to more formally recognize Armenia as a rich culture in the global diaspora, and introduce others to our culture.

