Mission Statement:
In the STTRPG Club, our members will learn to one day play D&D, and other such RPGs, to alleviate after school stress.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
All members of the club will be sorted into individual campaigns run by different dungeon masters. Different campaigns will have different meeting schedules, as some groups may wish to meet more than once a week, while other groups would feel more comfortable with a casual schedule of one meeting every two weeks. Each DM decides how often their group will meet, and the prospective players can sign up for the campaign they feel best fits their schedule. There will be at least one group that meets twice a week and at least one that meets once a week.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
In the Tabletop Role Playing Game Club, we will initiate new members into the world of D&D, and provide returning members an opportunity to dive back into the roleplaying game. This club will continue the new age of D&D at Stuyvesant High School. We intend to teach each member the ins and outs of playing and/or running games as a DM (Dungeon Master). General members will be expected to not abandon the campaigns (attend weekly), and be generally pleasant around others as to not put off future prospective members. Members who decide to DM will be expected to do the required prep work, whether it be writing up their own campaigns or deciding which pre-made module to use. They will also be in charge of making sure their members are up to date. This will help to imbue into them useful leadership and organizational skills. Meanwhile the players actually playing will be able to create a wholesome experience that will bring together all of those that are in the group, and in the process, creating new friendships and memories. Overall, we hope for an enjoyable experience for everyone involved, both on the managerial side of things and on the general side.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Tabletop Role Playing Game Club will help to provide the opportunities for social interaction and entertainment that the pandemic has robbed many students of. We do not need to meet in person and have had many successful online sessions. D&D fosters communication and teamwork and we are accepting of everyone which makes us a safe space for both those just starting out and also people who have been playing D&D for a while. The preparation work which the Dungeon Masters are expected to put into their campaigns will help teach them important organizational and leadership skills. They will learn to creatively weave a story, while also developing managerial skills that they can apply anywhere. The improvisational aspects of the game, in addition to the unique characters each member will be creating for themselves, will help members develop their creative writing and acting skills, will help teach team building, and will strengthen the friendships forged in this club. The club will also introduce many students to the world of tabletop role-playing games. We also hope to have a dungeon master running one-shots, making it easy for students not formally affiliated with the club to casually jump in without making a major commitment.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Tabletop Role Playing Game Club is led by the President and the Vice President. The election to elect the new President is held on January 21, while the election to elect the new Vice President is held on the 28th. The new president and Vice President do not hold power until the last day of May, when the old President and Vice President lose their titles. In order to be eligible to run, you must be in at least, or have been in at least, one campaign. They also must not be a Senior. Alongside the President and Vice President, the club may elect Admins, treasurers, and DM’s as needed. These roles each have their own responsibilities and authority within the club. Admin: Moderates the club discord and handles disputes between club members that a DM is unable to handle. Treasurer: Manages the club’s finances, submits the SU and PA finance forms, and handles physical / virtual items to give to other club members. GM: Host of a campaign, recruits club members to be a part of their campaign and works with their players to create a fun story for all members involved. Handles disputes within their group through communication and delegates the rules of being a part of their campaign. Admins and Treasurers are appointed by the President and Vice President, while DMs are purely voluntary. Impeachment: Dissatisfied club members can issue a complaint to the Vice President, who can initiate a recall election to remove the President. Similarly, dissatisfied club members can issue a complaint to the admins, who can initiate a recall elections to remove the Vice President.

What makes this activity unique?:
We offer an experience that can bring people together away from this world, and into a brand new one where the only limits are your imagination (and dice rolls). D&D is a collaborative tabletop role playing game that encourages being outspoken and creating a character that fits in to the magical world they inhabit. Our club has a highly flexible schedule, unlike many clubs, meaning that members will not have to worry about the meetings overlapping with other club schedules.

