Mission Statement:
The Volleyball Club strives to connect students at Stuyvesant through their interest in volleyball.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our schedule depends on the season, but during warmer temperature, we plan to hold meetings once a week.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Volleyball Club aims to provide a friendly environment where students can learn about all the different aspects of volleyball. Members will learn both the fundamentals of playing volleyball and the rules of the game. No experience is required! Experienced club leaders will teach members everything they need to know. Meetings will consist of lessons, watching volleyball games, and playing volleyball. We aim to give members a comprehensive and complete understanding of the game through discussions, demonstrations and observation. We will cover all aspects of the sport, including passing, setting, hitting, and serving. The club will have a blend of both indoor and outdoor meetings. When the weather permits, the club will meet outside and practice playing volleyball through drills and practice games. Members are expected to participate actively during meetings and ask any questions they may have. Meetings will be conducted once a week every other Thursday, and members are expected to attend at least once a month.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Currently, the only opportunity for students to pursue interest in volleyball at Stuyvesant is through the teams; however, there are many students who do not have the time or experience to commit to the team. Volleyball can be a very casual and enjoyable sport to play, and we hope to give students this same experience. Members can create goals for themselves and club leaders will help them reach these goals. The club offers a less stressful and more fun environment for those who want to play outside of the PSAL team. Volleyball team members can also practice during their off season. Club leaders are experienced in the sport, either having played on a Stuyvesant team and/or other programs outside of school. The club also is a place for students to hang out and relax after a long day of school. During meetings, we may watch games and discuss strategies used, enabling students to talk about and learn about the sport. We hope that Stuyvesant students will be able to bond and form new friendships in our club as they will meet others with a similar interest in volleyball. Members and leaders will help each other learn and grow as volleyball players. Therefore, Stuy Volleyball is a great place to meet new friends and make lasting connections.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Transfer of leadership and appointment of leadership positions are determined by members’ attendance and contributions to club meetings. The more meetings a member attends, the more experience they will gain in the sport and therefore the better equipped they will be to lead the club. The club will be led by one to three co-leaders. Any member that applies to become a leader is expected to show commitment and dedication to continuing the club’s mission. Perspective leaders are also expected to show strong leadership and teaching skills, demonstrate selflessness, as well as be friendly, approachable, and sociable. This can include attending meetings consistently, contributing to discussion, or leading demonstrations. In order for a member to apply to be a leader, they will first fill out an application form and then interviews will be conducted to determine the future leaders and/or co-leaders. The application process will occur once every semester, and leaders will be appointed as needed or when current leaders graduate. If a situation arises in which club members believe that the leaders should be removed or changed, a majority vote will determine the decision and club members will vote to appoint a new leader(s).

What makes this activity unique?:
This club is unique because it is the only club at Stuyvesant that provides an environment for students to learn about and practice volleyball outside the pressures and commitment of the team. The club is a safe and friendly environment for those who are interested or experienced in volleyball. Members who are interested in the sport will be able to participate without having prior knowledge. Whereas the volleyball teams at Stuyvesant require an extensive and high commitment try-out process and season, the club is a great way for anyone to learn the sport.

