Mission Statement:
This club is dedicated to teaching the in's and out's of architecture through designing, creating model structures, and gaining experience from pros.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Every Monday we will have a mandatory meeting for members, but there will occasionally be Wednesday meetings in order to allot more time for our projects. Every Wednesday, however, there will be a drafting help session. These sessions are open to any students who would like help with the drafting class' coursework.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of the Architecture Club is to provide an opportunity for students to further explore architecture outside of their mandatory drafting class in sophomore or junior year. People that enjoy drafting class may find that a single semester is too short to thoroughly absorb all the information and possibilities the topic offers. Architecture Club intends to allow students with a passion or interest in the subject to expand on the knowledge learned in class through our model building projects, problem-solving designs and experience from guest speakers. Every week, the club will hold two meetings: a mandatory meeting on Mondays and an optional meeting on Wednesdays (which will be mandatory on certain weeks). We will guide students through a process where they plan, design, and create architectural models.

We want our members to
1. Learn something about architecture or other design-related careers.
2. Examine current problems in the world and how architecture can change them.
3. Be respectful to guest speakers, leaders, and each other.
4. And lastly, have fun!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will introduce students to different aspects of architecture including, but not limited to, design, measurement, and model construction. The projects we work on in our club will enable students to be introduced to things they may not be already learning in class but have an interest in for their future careers. These activities also provide students with more material for their portfolios that are crucial to getting into an architecture or art college. In addition to providing an environment where students can release their stress, any student wishing to work after-school on drafting assignments or with difficulties with drafting may come in and ask for advice. Assisting students that come in for drafting support allows them to expand their understanding of the course, help them improve their grades and quality of assignments, and increase their enjoyment of the drafting course, as well as architecture in general. Students that think they are not good at drafting and/or the assignments involved often feel that they are at a disadvantage compared to other students in the course, but our club will enable them to find the support they need to enhance their skills and proficiency. Students with excellent drafting skills can use this activity as an outlet to express their interest in the subject and utilize their skills to produce more advanced work. Moreover, all students can learn and acquire knowledge in the area of architecture, building, and creating ideas with other students.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leaders must show up at least once every 2 mandatory meets (Mondays) and at least once every 4 optional meets (Wednesdays). If leaders do not follow these rules they will be stripped of their rank or suspended until further notice. Leaders are appointed at the end of the year by graduating leaders based on their knowledge of drafting and architecture, as well as their responsibility and ability to lead other members through a classroom-style meeting. Members must show up once every 2 mandatory meets or they will be dropped from the club. At the end of the meeting, all materials that were distributed MUST be put back where they were found. If anyone borrows materials from the other drafting rooms, they must take the responsibility of returning them by themselves. In addition, if any student takes advantage of the drafting help by playing on the computers, they will be removed from the room and their teacher will be notified.

What makes this activity unique?:
We teach members the design process going into a structure that is being built, including planning, layout, and the actual construction. We also discuss our structural plans as a group in order to share ideas and come up with original ideas. We will be having showcases within the group to present our work. In addition, we will be providing extra help to drafting students and teach them about technical drawing outside of what is taught in our drafting classes.

