Mission Statement:
"Stuyvesant TCG Club is a place where students can learn and play trading card games, relax, and make new friends!"

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet every Friday and maybe other days depending on the schedule

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant TCG club is a club for fans of popular trading card games such as Magic: the Gathering, Yu-Gi-Oh, Cardfight Vanguard, the Pokémon TCG, Legends of Runeterra etc. The club provides cards and decks for members, teaches new players how to play, organizes larger events (such as tournaments and drafts), and, most importantly, provides a place for people who share an interest in these amazing strategic games to come together and have fun. Club members often play larger 3-6 person free-for-all or team formats, as opposed to the traditional one versus one competitive gameplay of these games, to promote the friendly social environment of the club. General members are expected only to come when they want to and have fun when they do. 

The TCG Club also provides a place for students to get away from the hustle and bustle of regular Stuyvesant life by playing card games, by which they can form friend groups and also improve their skills

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant TCG Club benefits the Stuyvesant community in much the same way as other recreational clubs like the Board Games Club (with whom we share a close relationship) do: by providing a place for students with similar interests to come together and have fun. Stuyvesant is a large and often stressful place, and clubs like ours help our members to make friends, and to (if only briefly) escape the stress of the Stuyvesant daily routine to do something fun while still intellectually stimulating. Stuyvesant TCG Club members always look forward to the fun of a club meeting on Friday — it’s not TGI Friday here, it’s TCG Friday!

Trading card games are known for their high complexity, both in gameplay structure and strategy. Playing these games helps develop players’ problem solving and forward planning skills as they think through their actions each turn to try to maneuver into a winning position. The building of a deck to play the game also stimulates a player’s creative side, as they consider the many different options at their disposal to construct a deck that is uniquely their own. TCG’s are also very social games that bring fellow players together through their love of the game, and our club emphasizes this by playing larger group game formats as opposed to standard one versus one games to develop communication and teamwork skills.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership of the Stuyvesant TCG Club consists of at least one President and at least two Vice Presidents.

The President(s) is/are expected to organize and show up consistently to meetings, and to teach and recruit new members. They are also expected to set up and provide materials for larger events and to have extra decks on hand at meetings to lend to other members.

The Vice Presidents are expected to help organize and show up consistently to meetings, and to teach and recruit new members. They are also expected to help set up larger events and to have extra decks on hand at meetings to lend to other members.

Leadership positions are open to all club members. Leadership is appointed through an election process at the end of each year that is open to all active club members. Existing leadership is required to run for re-election if they want to retain their positions, but roles will default to their current holders in the absence of challengers.

Existing leadership must create a series of interview questions to ask each candidate, and to which they must also state their own personal answers. The interviews must be conducted openly so that all voting club members may know each candidate’s responses. 

Existing leadership may remove a candidate from the election before voting given sufficient reason to do so. Such action requires unanimous agreement by existing leadership, but can be overridden by a ⅔ majority vote by active club members.

In the election, all active club members not currently running for a leadership position may vote. Voters rank their top three candidates for each position. It is up to the new leadership whether to appoint additional officers to a position beyond the required numbers, in which case they are chosen in order of most votes. 

	In the event that a position becomes vacant outside of elections or a position is not filled by elections, the highest-ranking officer below that position will be promoted to take the position, then leadership will appoint someone to fill the vacant role.

	Given reasonable justification, an officer in any position may be impeached by either unanimous agreement by the rest of leadership combined with a >50% majority vote of active club members, or by a ⅔ majority vote of active club members regardless of leadership decisions.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Stuyvesant TCG Club is the only club at Stuyvesant for players of trading card games, and often the only way for these people to find each other in such a large school. It is also a uniquely friendly and social environment for the players of these games as compared to the alternative of going to events at game stores. The Stuyvesant TCG Club also has a long-running history, dating back to the time when drafting and robotics teacher Mr. Blay was a Stuyvesant student and founding member. We provide a primary outlet for non-digital (before quarantine), non-athletic entertainment at Stuyvesant — something which should be preserved in a world increasingly disappearing into video games.

