Mission Statement:
The RTS Games Club gathers players of all RTS games in a community where they can share their progress and further their love of these games.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meetings will generally be on weekends, but depending on when everyone’s free, games can take place outside of meeting times. All of our meetings will take place on our Discord server.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
This club focuses on real-time strategy games, a genre mainly focused on slower games where you build up towards a strategy in real time. Examples of RTS games include titles such as Cities: Skylines, Total War, Europa Universalis IV, Civilization VI, Company of Heroes II, Hearts of Iron IV, Crusader Kings II, and Stellaris, though it is not limited to those games and this is just a short list! Whether you play ten RTS games or only one, this is the club for you to find advice, multiplayer buddies, or generally to just have a good old time. Another one of our goals is to find opportunities to bring the joy of RTS games to everyone; often, RTS games and their associated DLCs can be very expensive, and we want to work towards making the RTS experience more accessible. This would include announcing when certain games come out/go on sale, but beyond that, hosting multiplayer games to share DLC access.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
In general, RTS games involve multiple players cooperating towards a certain result with each player having a specific role to play, sort of like teamwork! As such, this club will create a unified spot for players to meet and play with, therefore creating friendships with the foundation of group work. RTS games additionally require skills regarding thinking ahead, multitasking, and explaining to other members in both leading and explanatory ways. These are skills that can be learned, and have applications beyond the game into Stuyvesant life. Furthermore, we want to provide a different sort of benefit than you see with other clubs. RTS games can often be uniquely relaxing as they often involve a slow buildup towards a larger goal, meaning that they can often be a way to de-stress after the otherwise busy lives that we live as Stuyvesant students. This club would provide an outlet for this effect to happen. Finally, the games themselves can also explore subjects with real-world applications. With many RTS games focusing on historical events, playing the RTS games may increase interest to learn about those historical events. Furthermore, other RTS games(ex: Cities: Skylines) focus on concepts such as city planning. Overall, while these benefits might not be much, they still exist.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The club is run by a group of senior students who are in charge of hosting and running games, though these responsibilities aren't just limited to senior members and any active junior or underclassmen members can also take the responsibility of organizing games. All positions are elected by approval voting, and anyone in the club can run for a position. They are in charge of matters relating to organizing meetings, maintaining the club discord server, rechartering the club, and other logistical needs. They are also in charge of amending the Club Charter as needed, with all amendments requiring a majority. Ordinary members of the club can also propose amendments and changes to the charter, approved by a majority of the club. Members of this body can be removed if a majority of the club approves. Because most of our club is centered around our discord server, impeachment procedures will mostly take place on the server and result in removal of role(s).

What makes this activity unique?:
RTS games can often be less popular than their other counterparts due to its comparatively slow pacing, but we at the RTS Games Club want to make a club where RTS games can shine too! The RTS Games Club is based on creating an environment specifically around playing RTS Games. RTS games are also generally more fun with more people playing them, so the RTS Games Club wants to build an environment where people can play these games cooperatively to improve everyone’s gaming experience.

