Mission Statement:
Our mission is to provide a safe space to field questions about Christianity and to learn more about and grow in the Christian faith.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We meet once a week (primarily on Tuesdays). Occasionally, there are extra meets for special events.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Seekers intends to create an open space for students to learn about God and have edifying fellowship. We welcome students of all backgrounds, ranging from Christians desiring a deeper spiritual relationship with Christ to non-Christians who seek to learn more about what we believe in. We aim to foster a greater understanding of who God is and build a strong, diverse family within Stuyvesant. We endeavor to achieve this by studying the Bible together, planning group events, inviting guest speakers and professors, and discussing Christianity. The Bible speaks about living to glorify God by following His teachings about love, joy, kindness, faithfulness, self-control, gentleness, and obedience; through this club, we desire to glorify Him by following these good characteristics. 

Additionally we hope to be able to answer questions others have about Christianity and to provide a space where people can express their doubts or frustrations.

John 3:16 (English Standard Version) "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life."

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Seekers will benefit the Stuyvesant community by providing a time for Christians to have fellowship with people around their age during weekdays, allowing them to incorporate their faith into their school life. Seekers also provides a chance for individuals to discuss with their peers about recent developments in their lives in an encouraging, friendly, and non-judgemental environment. Non-Christians will learn more about what we believe and why we believe in the actual occurrences of events described in the Bible. We want to create an environment that is welcoming, where people can have peaceful conversations about controversial topics related to the Bible. Stuyvesant Seekers also works with the Christian Seekers International fellowship which has branches in New York City. This allows our members to connect with pastors and other religious leaders outside of our club. It gives members insight on Christianity outside of high school and will be a valuable resource in the future. Students will learn about theological teachings regarding Christianity and the study of apologetics in order to further their own understandings behind it. This will garner an environment where students are more aware of Christianity and its teachings, which provides a foundation of faith and hope in Jesus Christ.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leaders should never avoid their responsibilities. Leaders of the club are expected to:
- Be Honest
- Participate in Seekers activities
- Show up to Seekers’ meetings
- Contribute to organizing meetings and plans in equal parts as their co-leaders
- Help plan Seekers events
- Encourage other members of the club
- Train members to prepare for future leadership opportunities

Leaders who fail to adhere to these expectations will be evaluated on the board in order to determine if they deserve to stay a leader. If a leader is impeached, there will be a meeting among club members to determine if another leader needs to be elected.

All members of the club are expected to make others feel welcome and at home. The club will act as a judgment-free zone based on trust where everyone can share their personal experiences and struggles with the rest of the club.

For the appointment of future leaders, we send out a form to members applying for a leadership position. Afterwards, everyone who fills out a form applying to a leadership position will get an interview with the entire board. Then we begin choosing suitable future leaders. The club board looks at member participation in events and the contribution to the club. Members should display a genuine devotion to God and dedication to the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant Seekers is the only Christian club in Stuyvesant that provides students with an open space to grow in their faith and have fellowship with their peers. Seekers is a completely student-run and cross-denominational Christian club aimed to inform and spread the word about the Bible. We welcome all ethnicities, religions, and backgrounds, regardless of whether you are a believer or a non-believer. Our goal is to reach out to our fellow peers and help build a strong family that any student can rely on for support. We welcome anyone who is interested in exploring Christianity and incorporating their faith into their school life.

