Mission Statement:
A club & small community of artists, developing their individual styles and practices through workshops, projects, and volunteering.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We intend to hold a Canvas meeting every other Tuesday, 1-2 times a month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyCanvas aims to provide an inviting space for artists to explore their interests through peer collaboration. Meetings will typically consist of community round-ups, collaborative / individual drawing sessions, technical workshops, and much more. StuyCanvas may also organize activities outside of school hours, such as possible volunteering opportunities, as well as trips to museums around the city. Moreover, members will also be encouraged to participate in challenges to be done in their own time, such as our monthly art trade. 

Meetings will be held in Ms. Chu’s room, such that members can have easy access to any supplies that they may need. Artists that would like to work in alternate / digital mediums may bring their own materials. 

While club activities are primarily organized by the club leaders, members will have the opportunity to contribute and even host their own workshops. While StuyCanvas intends to be a low-commitment club, regular participation is expected.

It's difficult to find time for personal art during the school year, and the club is hoping to carve time out of busy schedules to draw with like-minded classmates. StuyCanvas would be excited to have another artist drawing, painting, and creating alongside the club.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyCanvas to wants to provide a space for visual creativity, where it is often absent in Stuyvesant's STEM-oriented curriculum. This club offers a space for artists of all levels, skill sets, and mediums to find common ground through shared interests, while simultaneously improving their skills. 

Club meetings will often be centered around developing member’s technical skills such as anatomy, color theory, and composition. Members will be encouraged to actively apply these lessons to their work both inside and outside of the club, helping them become a more well-rounded and versatile artist.

While StuyCanvas aims to facilitate the growth of one’s technical abilities as well as encourage the creation of artwork, StuyCanvas hopes that members can inspire one another. StuyCanvas will give Stuyvesant students a platform to collaborate, request constructive criticism, and support each other in the members' artistic explorations. Many club activities will encourage active teamwork and discussion. Whether it be a group free-draw session, or a peer-led workshop, the club hopes that members can benefit from each other’s unique experiences and insights. 

StuyCanvas is a wonderful place to create for yourself, and not necessarily worry about polished, finished products. The club encourages you to improve at your own pace and become a better artist with every meeting.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There are currently three co-leaders in charge of organizing meetings/events and communicating with external organizations and the rest of StuyCanvas. Applications for leadership positions will open up towards the end of the Spring Semester. This will consist of both a written application and an interview, both of which will be considered by all currently sitting co-leaders, as well as Ms. Chu. While underclassmen are preferred for leadership positions, anyone is free to apply.

StuyCanvas aims to keep StuyCanvas a comfortable and welcoming space for everybody involved. Racism, homophobia, transphobia, sexual harassment, and all forms of degrading speech will not be tolerated. Any member that is witness/subject to this treatment is highly encouraged to speak to a co-president or Ms. Chu. An additional google form is set up such that members can report incidents anonymously. Violating members will be spoken to – depending on severity, they may receive a warning and/or be removed outright. If a President is at risk of being cut, they'll be called to have a discussion with the other President and Ms. Chu. In the case that the President is terminated from their position, another will be appointed by the same methods outlined above.

StuyCanvas is low-commitment, and the club will generally be lenient if members cannot make certain meetings or contribute to every activity. However, there will be a reasonable expectation that an effort is made to be engaged with the ongoings of the club. Any member that consistently fails to show up/participate may be removed.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyCanvas is the only visual arts club that places a strong focus on improving the technical art skills of each individual member, rather than simply hosting a space to create art. Members will be actively learning and furthering their artistic tool kit during each meeting. The club also provides a community that allows members to learn directly from peers and build valuable connections with other artists, whether that be through peer-led lessons or through collaborative activities.

