Mission Statement:
StuyHP works to provide assistance to humanities students through tutoring, test prep, material comprehension, and guidance for projects like NHD.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Tutors, head tutors, and students in other leadership roles must meet at least once per month for debriefing and any other updates. We will have review sessions for each department based on the availability of teachers throughout the week.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Humanities Prep's purpose is to create a larger community and passion for the humanities by offering students extra help and tutoring in various courses, such as history APs, English literature courses, and guidance in students' National History Day projects. We will provide review sessions after school the day prior to tests, and we are open to helping students brainstorm, develop, and research ideas for essays and other projects. Review sessions will typically be led by student tutors and associated teachers, who will teach a group of tutees, much like in a classroom setting, and will allow students to review test content and practice with diverse types of questions to simulate their test-day experience, along with being able to ask any further questions and clarify. We will also provide one-on-one tutoring, virtual sessions, and assisted peer tutoring.
In our English department, however, students will sign up prior to sessions indicating what book they want to discuss, allowing tutors to read the text and be prepared to lead discussions. In said sessions, students will be able to understand and analyze difficult texts and material from class. Sessions will comprise independent reading followed by a discussion, either with a group of students reading the same text or only a tutor.
Students can join whether they want to tutor, be tutored, or if they simply want to learn more about or discuss the curriculum in another course! If students want to tutor, help create lesson plans and presentations, edit essays, or give consultations they will receive community service hours. Tutees are not required to come to every meeting, but can participate in various review sessions, receive advice on their essays, analyze the material they are reading in class, or overview courses that they may be interested in taking in the future.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
As a result of Stuyvesant being primarily a STEM-focused school, Stuyvesant Humanities Prep (SHP) aims to provide support and guidance in an area of Stuyvesant academia that is generally overlooked. While going through the course curriculum, we found that students struggled with memorizing, comprehending, or recalling information. Stuyvesant Humanities Prep would allow students to further their understanding of the curriculum and be better prepared for exams and projects. In the experiences of previous AP history students, we saw there was a panic to cram hundreds of years' worth of history that often involved oversimplifying complex events and phenomena. Our club aims to preserve students' complex understanding while still being familiar with all of the required content. Our AP essay program introduces students to the essay format that is easy to learn and ensures full points. We also acquaint students with the complex literature that is involved in these AP history courses by teaching them strategies to essentially translate between the time periods. These skills, as well as general content knowledge, will allow students to feel more comfortable in their classroom setting and on their assessments. 
	 In English classes, we aim to assist students in reading teacher-assigned text as well as help students plan their writing assignments. Students will gain a more nuanced perspective on the texts they read and will be able to apply what they have read to more complex ideas, allowing them to both speak and write at a higher learning level inside and outside of the classroom.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Stuyvesant Humanities Prep will be divided into departments based on the class (AP Euro, APUSH, AP World, Global Studies 1 & 2, Freshman Composition and Foundations of Literature). Each department will have a head tutor who will manage tutors and tutees and make sure everyone is following the Stuyvesant Code of Behavior. The head tutor will correspond with tutors who have the responsibility of making lesson plans and tutors who will be physically teaching the lesson. The Freshman Composition/Foundations of Literature head tutors will send out google forms to tutees and tutors to arrange the pairings of tutors who have read the books the tutee wants to review. We will also have a social media coordinator to advertise our club by creating posts on Instagram/Facebook and physical posters. 
In order to obtain a tutorship position, applicants will be required to fill out a Google form, which survey an applicants’ understanding of the topic they desire to tutor in, and participate in a short interview. Leadership position applicants will undergo a similar process but will have to reason why they are fit for greater responsibilities. 
Head tutors will be able to keep their positions (given their leadership performance reaches club standards) until they graduate. When a head tutor leaves their position, we will send out a Google form prior to the start of the school year and the next head tutor will be chosen by the President(s). Upon graduation, the President(s) will choose the next President(s) from the group of tutors who expressed interest in a separate Google Form. 
At the end of sessions, a present leader will give students a link to a google form where they can rate the session and give feedback and complaints. Tutors and head tutors will be forced out of their position if they obtain three strikes. If tutors are found to be using inappropriate media and language or spreading hate speech (racism, homophobia, transphobia, sexual harrassment), they will be given a strike. If they bully the tutees they will be given a strike. If they fail to uphold their meeting times they will be given 2 strikes. If a tutor gives their tutees false content with malicious intent they will be given 2 strikes. Tutees that are reported by tutors doing any of the aforementioned behaviors will be warned once and if it happens again, they will be suspended from sessions for a month.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant Humanities Prep’s objective is to create a larger, proactive, and constructive community where students can study the humanities, a region in Stuyvesant that isn’t explored and prioritized enough. When taking history classes, students often were not offered an adequate amount of resources in class and there were no tutoring services available to students that offered review in history and art history. Although there exist clubs that are dedicated to current events, historical events, or art, Stuyvesant Humanities Prep specifically prepares students for tests (including the AP exams) through carefully chosen practice problems and guided review sessions that include efficient strategies and methods. We have also noticed that it can often be difficult to decipher certain texts that students are reading in class, however there are no after school activities that actively help students struggling with the material in their English classes. Stuyvesant Humanities Prep offers further opportunities for students to excel in their coursework as well as open more students' minds to the humanities in a STEM-focused school.

