Mission Statement:
StuyFlow was created to spread the flow arts and provide a friendly environment for students to express their concerns or thoughts with each other.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
During off-show season, we meet Wednesdays and Fridays. During show season, meetings are held daily.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyFlow is a performing arts dance club that specializes in light-up equipment. The club uses various glow-in-the-dark props such as glow sticks, staffs, whips, fans, levitation wands, and much more—to put on unique performances! Flow participates in the three annual performances at Stuyvesant (StuySquad, SING!, and SOS) and hosts weekly club meetings that introduce fun choreography projects throughout the year. We place heavy emphasis on community, organizing bonding activities, and encouraging members to step out of their comfort zone. Although all club meetings are NOT mandatory, they are highly recommended for members who are interested in improving their skills and confidence. It is expected that members follow a set of rules. Please be aware of your surroundings when using equipment (especially in hallways) and respect the school administration. Always return equipment that is borrowed. Follow PLURR principles—Peace, Love, Unity, Respect, and Responsibility. Lastly and most importantly, have fun! Flow is a large, awesome community and we can't wait for you to be a part of it!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyFlow takes part in Stuyvesant's 3 annual performances: StuySquad, SING!, and SOS. Club members are encouraged to participate and contribute to the school spirit, to play a part in the larger, school-wide shows. Outside of performances and rehearsals, StuyFlow seeks to empower its members by letting them freely express their thoughts and creativity in a family-like environment. Regularly scheduled meetings provide various opportunities for students to relieve stress and develop their leadership skills as they teach fellow Flowers new choreography and skills. Because Flow performs in the dark, it is a great stepping stone for those who are apprehensive about performing, especially in front of others. StuyFlow also encourages its members to follow the principles of PLURR: Peace, Love, Unity, Respect, and Responsibility. There is a strong emphasis of inclusiveness and empathy within Flow, which results in a strong community. Because Flow is extremely different from what is usually portrayed in dance and arts, it also adds uniqueness and flavor to the Stuyvesant performances and community. All active members within Flow are also encouraged to direct shows, which allow them to build leadership and choreographing skills. All members are also encouraged to apply for the board each year, giving opportunities for members to realize dreams they have for Flow.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The main positions, Co-Presidents, are responsible for the overall management of the club, including the organization of events and meetings for members. The Inventory Manager/Treasurer is expected to manage the budget and inventory of StuyFlow. Designers create various graphics for StuyFlow, whether that be merchandise, logos, or videos. The Leader in Training participates in all aspects of the board. All board members are expected to uphold club values such as PLURR. Board members are elected by the club at the end of the year. However, they may be replaced if there is a significant lack of participation, organization, leadership, sincerity, and/or approachability. Impeachment can be suggested by any member of the club and a consensus must form among the members. The board member is notified and asked to resign. If s/he refuses, a vote will be taken by club members to determine whether or not the board member in question is impeached. Although the President has the final say, s/he should listen to the recommendations of the club body.

What makes this activity unique?:
As a performing arts club, StuyFlow stands out from other performance clubs by performing in the dark through manipulating light-up props such as glow sticks, LED staffs, and LED whips which inherently bring a unique dynamic to traditional dance crews. In addition, we also follow the principles of PLURR (Peace, Love, Unity, Respect, Responsibility). StuyFlow heavily emphasizes crew bonding and because of this, the club’s members help improve each other’s skills while growing closer to each other as a community.

