Mission Statement:
Open Source Studio aims to foster a community of teaching programming languages and utilizing those skills to create large open-source projects.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule can vary depending on the schedules of our teachers. Usually, we will have 2 meetings every week for each field we teach.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Open Source Studio plans to create a dynamic coding club, where club members can learn not only various specific coding languages but also will be able to develop large-scale open-source projects with a variety of different coding fields. These would include web development, game development, and discord bot creation. People of all levels of coding experience are allowed to join, and our lessons will teach everything you need to know. Traditionally, in the first 5 months, we will have training/off-season where club members will learn how to code and practice applying it to small projects that reinforce their skills. Meetings will be held in Discord, with separate voice channels for each of the fields we will teach. Our teaching will be more interactive and allow our members to think critically and be creative, rather than make them memorize syntax. If a new member comes during the training season, they will be able to catch up by looking at the resources we post on our Discord for each lesson. Questions about the material will be designated to another Discord channel, where the Presidents and the Instructional department can help. After the training season, we will have a build season where we vote on projects for the three main fields of coding we will be teaching. Here, we will host open-source GitHub repositories where club members can contribute to the projects, which will be completed by the end of the school year.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
In the Open Source Studio, we will not only foster a fun coding environment but also a close community where people can work and learn about a certain field of coding alongside one another. Often, other clubs focus on a specific field of coding or a certain coding language, but we want to allow for an all-inclusive environment where you can try a field and see what best suits your interest. Our club also plans to create a community with a greater purpose of eventually publishing various open-source projects. Stuy students will work in a team-based environment, which prepares students for the rapidly changing and collaborative job market that our members will have a taste of in this club. A team-based environment is also highly emphasized so no one feels left behind or not smart enough to share ideas and help. People at different levels in their coding journey will be able to contribute. Going into specifics, our training projects will be hosted on GitHub Classroom, where we will give students repositories on which they can complete mini-projects. These mini-projects will test the skills we teach our members every 2 weeks during the training season. Afterward, our main project will be based on a schedule, including time for design/story decisions and deadlines for certain components/levels of each project. Overall, our club benefits Stuyvesant since it offers a new, specifically collaborative community of coders, a more beneficial way of learning, and an opportunity for students to prepare for the coding industry and help publish projects they are proud of.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There will be 2 (co)Presidents per school year who have full control over all club operations. They will be responsible for overseeing the club, communicating with Department Leaders, and ensuring all other operations run smoothly. Department leaders (Marketing, IT, and Instructional) are in charge of their respective departments. They are to ensure all department responsibilities are fulfilled. They also assist the (co)Presidents/Vice Presidents(s) with hiring members for their department. 

Before the end of the school year, applications will be sent out to fill the (co)President roles for the upcoming school year in the event that there are no Vice Presidents to take over. These (co)Presidents will be in charge of hiring/maintaining department leaders for the upcoming school year.

If any leadership member is not putting in the work, there will be a vote among all leadership team members to impeach the member and replace them with either one of the department members (if it is a Director) or the Vice President (if it is a President).

What makes this activity unique?:
Open Source Studio is unique because not only does it provide new programming skills, but it also allows for these skills to be incorporated into useful projects that will be available on the world wide web. Stuy students will not only learn through traditional methods but will also experience project-based learning as they work alongside their peers. This type of learning has been proven to benefit people’s critical thinking skills as they learn with a sense of purpose, and is not as clearly emphasized in other clubs.

