Mission Statement:
Students in ADVA work to help victims of domestic abuse and increase awareness in our communities on the topics of domestic violence & homelessness.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule may vary depending on the time of the year, but we will meet at least twice a month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
ADVA is a nonprofit that aims to gather resources to help victims of domestic abuse and the homeless. The club will plan and host fundraisers (such as bake sales) to raise money for shelters and reputable organizations that support victims of domestic violence, the homeless, and/or orphans. To add on, ADVA hopes to collect toiletries, hygiene products, and clothing for donations to homeless shelters. The club will also work with trustworthy organizations to make and send care packages/hygiene kits to homeless people, which includes teens, families, women, etc. Prior to holidays like Thanksgiving and Christmas, we will have meetings where members can do fun crafts such as make bracelets/crochet items or put together small bracelet-making kits and write cards for the holidays. In addition, we hope to give members the opportunity to volunteer at soup kitchens and/or shelters. In the future, we aim to establish a tutoring service with shelters and underprivileged communities. Furthermore, we are aware that domestic violence is a sensitive topic often not discussed and that there are many misconceptions surrounding homelessness. We hope to increase awareness and correct these myths. In meetings, we will discuss various topics like how we can personally help. Our club’s activities will include creating posts and infographics regarding these myths and how each of us can be of aid.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Domestic violence is a grave issue found in many parts of society. We hope to lead Stuyvesant students in raising their voices against domestic abuse and supporting victims, especially women and children who are experiencing homelessness. In addition to increasing awareness and helping our communities take action, Stuy ADVA will also host fundraisers where students will be able donate and raise money to support the cause. ADVA’s goals include providing education to our communities about the seriousness and impact of domestic violence and how each individual can take action. We also hope to branch out into what being homeless truly means, just how prominent and serious the problem is, and good ways to help, both as a group and also in one’s individual life and endeavors. Our low (or medium, depending on the individual’s liking) commitment club meetings will be a safe, productive, and positive space where students can make friends and have fun while still making an impact. ADVA’s club activities, which include crocheting, bracelet-making, and baking/cooking for donations, allow Stuyvesant students to use their skills and hobbies to help others. Anyone is welcome to attend meetings, even if they can’t make it to every meeting or have only just decided to join ADVA. This club is a great way to relax while still learning and making a difference in our society.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Meetings are scheduled and run by the two presidents, who are currently the two co-founders. In the spring or fall of a school year, a Google form regarding leadership positions (potential ones include Secretary, Graphics Director, and Logistics) will be released. The presidents will select a candidate with the most promising submission by the end of the school year. When a president is going to graduate, their role will be added to that form at the beginning of their graduating year. The new president will be appointed as VP and become President once the current one graduates. If anyone in a leadership role is neglecting their position, meaning they don’t attend 3 consecutive meetings, or do but don’t do their share of work for 1 month, they will be removed from their position unless they have a valid medical or personal issue. If any leader uses hate speech or posts hateful content, they will be removed. No bullying or discrimination is tolerated. Actions deemed worthy of impeachment will result in a club vote where the leader will be impeached if 70% of the club agrees. A new leadership application will be released, and the impeached leader will not be able to apply. Presidents can step down before graduation, but must give 2 weeks notice before officially resigning. They must send out the leadership transfer form and both presidents must appoint one new co-president before or during those 2 weeks. Members using hateful speech or committing hateful/discriminatory actions while in attendance will also not be tolerated.

What makes this activity unique?:
Despite the prevalence of domestic violence and homelessness, these topics are rarely discussed and are often not at all. There are no other clubs found at Stuyvesant that are committed to fighting domestic abuse and helping victims or combating homelessness, which is something that issues this prevalent need. ADVA brings together all sorts of activities such as crocheting, cooking, bracelet-making, knitting, baking, and more that will allow various people with differing interests and skills to contribute.

