Mission Statement:
The StuyFilmmaking Club’s mission is to teach members about the filmmaking process and work together to write, film, and edit creative short films.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Wednesday, Friday, Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet once a week, with the day of the week depending on availability. Each month will be themed: October (general), November (pre-production), December (production), January (post-production), February (members are encouraged to participate in SING!), March (pre-production), April (production), May (post-production), with each week focused on a more specific aspect of the filmmaking process.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of this activity is for students to learn about all the procedures involved in creating a film. In addition, we will work together as a group and create short films. This includes the many tasks involved in creating films such as screenwriting, filming, editing, and so much more. Members can be from all areas of experience. Members are expected to play a role in creating a short film. This means that they should be involved in the creation in at least one way, whether that means helping with writing, props, costumes, cinematography, directing, editing, makeup, special effects, or more. This will be a collaborative process, so members of the club are expected to work together in order to create the short films. The members will discuss with each other to make decisions and develop teamwork skills. The members don't have to be involved in every aspect of the process, but should be involved in at least one part of the production process.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will help students become more knowledgeable about how to work together to make short films. In addition, this activity will promote teamwork which will benefit the Stuyvesant community because students will be able to develop better cooperation skills, which can be used not only for filmmaking, but also in the classroom and in life. The Stuyvesant community will have access to filmmaking as an outlet to express their creativity, bringing stories to life using film as the selected medium. Members are encouraged to try something they have never done before because they may find something that they never knew they were interested in or passionate about. This club will teach members how to participate in each stage of the filmmaking process, so some members may even be able to discover a future career path in the visual media industry. The Stuyvesant community will also now have a club that caters to some people's specific interests, such as screenwriting, cinematography, and editing, which can be applied in many aspects of life in the future. Members of the club will practice their collaborative filmmaking skills to create one short film per semester, which may be submitted to competitions and/or college portfolio applications to represent the abilities they’ve learned from the club.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions will include one senior President and at least one junior Vice President. Vice Presidents will be appointed by the President based on their ability to commit to the club and willingness to learn about filmmaking. When the President graduates, the Vice President will become the new President and appoint new Vice Presidents. If the Vice President does not want to continue leading, they may give their place to another member. If a club leader is not doing their duties such as attending, organizing, or overseeing meetings, then they may be impeached. This can be done if one student presents their case to the club members, and the rest of the club votes for this leader to be impeached. A new leader will be appointed by the remaining leader(s). If there are no remaining leaders, the members will vote on who will become the next leader. Members are expected to show up to meetings, and participate in at least one stage of the creation of a short film. It is recommended to attend every meeting, as each week will each be focused on a different part of the filmmaking process. Members are only required to bring their willingness to learn and participate to the meetings, and all the work will be done during club hours so members can collaborate.

What makes this activity unique?:
This is the only club that offers the opportunity to create short films as members learn about each stage of the filmmaking process. Stuyvesant students typically do not engage in the world of filmmaking. This club may help students discover a career path involved in any of the many stages of filmmaking, including screenwriting, cinematography, directing, video editing, and more. With the short films created through this club, students will be set up for a successful college application portfolio, which is an opportunity that many students would not have access to outside of school.

