Mission Statement:
We intend to research & produce publications on underrepresented diseases to raise awareness of these diseases.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will vary based on the disease we are researching that month, but we plan to meet at least bi-monthly. The meetings may include brainstorming, composing, organizing teams, and/or designing meetings for the publications.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
We strive to advocate for the hundreds of thousands of individuals worldwide who suffer from uncommon diseases. Such diseases include but are not limited to, cystic fibrosis, Hemophilia A, Dercum disease, and hundreds of others. Just because a disease is considered “rare,” it does not mean that the affected individuals deserve less attention from the public or media. Many of these diseases strip away an individual's voice. As a result, it is important for those of us who have a voice to speak up and advocate for our peers who do not. We plan to raise awareness by creating a publication roughly every month educating people about a specific disease. The publications will be filled with color and aesthetic visuals for easy comprehension and user engagement. We plan to present these publications in school-wide events, such as the annual Health Fair. Also, we plan to post each of our publications to our social media platforms to reach the broader, online community.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Many of us love learning biology. For example, we love the gene sequences, protein-making, and countless other topics that we have learned in class. However, often as a result of the standardization of curriculum, we mostly only learn how things are supposed to function. We rarely learn what happens to individuals who don't have perfectly-working protein makers or those who have a mutation in one of their chromosomes. Even when we do learn about the common diseases, we aren't able to further apply ourselves and help speak up for those individuals who have had their voices stripped from them, not to mention that, oftentimes, the only way we apply our knowledge in class is on a test. This club would not only allow students to further apply their knowledge of biology but also make a difference and express themselves. Students can choose to pass on their knowledge through any form of art, whether it be digital art, hand-drawn art, social media, or any other skill they may have. It would also be a great way to make friends and network with people who share a similar interest to you. We will also be running a ~monthly publication for each disease, so anyone interested in scientific writing can join.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The official positions of the club are the President and Vice President. They are required to have good attendance, responsibility, and commitment to the club and its events. They will also be expected to organize events, be able to properly communicate and engage with the other members of the club, set a good example to the other members of the club, and more. To manage the different skills required for this club (ie. researching, design, advertisement), we will organize teams to work on different aspects of the publication. Each team will have a group leader. For example, we will have a graphics team that focuses on making our publications aesthetic and easy to follow. The president/vice president will send out a Google form and all who are interested may apply for any/all teams they are interested in. There will be a separate Google Form for team members who are interested in leading a specific team. The board members may be impeached and replaced if they have more than three unexcused or unreported absences per semester, are frequently unable to communicate with each other and the club members actively, display irresponsibility or recklessness during meetings, are unable to organize more than two meetings per semester on time/properly, etc. Impeachment can be suggested by any member of the club and a consensus form will be given at one of the meetings. Then, the board member will be notified and asked to resign.

What makes this activity unique?:
In general, high school students are barely exposed to well-known diseases, let alone the underrepresented diseases. While Stuyvesant does have clubs that focus on the sciences, these clubs merely discuss some of the well-known diseases and possibly not the underrepresented diseases at all. Stuyvesant also has clubs that focus on raising awareness towards various causes. The uniqueness of this club is that it joins the aspects of the two types of aforementioned clubs into one. Not only will this attract those interested in the medical field, but also those interested in the marketing field and visual arts field. Students would also be able to use any skill they want, whether it be video making, digital art, handwritten art, writing, and computer-aided design to help raise awareness.

