Mission Statement:
To teach students financial literacy and institute a wealth mindset to set them up for future financial success.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our club will meet once a week. Club meetings will be very informal and held on every other Wednesday, from 3:35-5 PM. The club is low-commitment and won’t require members to attend every meeting. Club members who have meetings in other clubs can arrive at any time in between the specified period and can stay for as long as they want.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
How does Jeff Bezos pay $0 in taxes? Less than my parents? Why do ⅓ lottery winners go broke? How do 60% of all athletes, many of whom are multi-millionaires, lose all their money within 5 years! How did a man go from living in the projects to becoming the CEO of Starbucks? Hint: It all has to do with their mindset.

Our purpose is to teach as many students as possible the millionaire mindset and how to change the way they look at time and money forever, along with crucial financial skills not taught in schools, such as how you can actually use credit cards to your advantage and how to leverage debt to MAKE you money like the 1%. The club also strives to teach life long skills such as taxes and how to read financial books more efficiently.

Although this may sound too good to be true, money doesn’t just grow on trees. Members are strongly encouraged to attend every meeting in order to gain as much knowledge as possible and take notes, and if members are not able to make the meeting, they should contact one of the club leaders ASAP to catch up on any knowledge gaps. Members should also strive to apply everything learned in the club - Knowledge without action is useless, and action without knowledge is futile.

By the end of the year, your perspective on money will have completely changed. You will walk in having the mindset of a consumer, but walk out thinking like a CEO of the next Amazon.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
In the past 2 years, we’ve gone through a pandemic that has sent shockwaves through the American economy. New York City was one of the areas that was hit the hardest. As a result, 23% of all citizens lost their jobs and suffered financially. This has shed a spotlight on the importance of financial literacy among students, a topic that is seldom discussed in school and has the potential to change the lives of many. 

Throughout the school year, the club will be teaching students many skills, including how to perceive failure as a stepping stone to success, the D.I.G method that has been behind the success of millionaires, how to stop procrastinating and motivate yourself to work when you don't want to, how to leverage social media as a business platform without sounding like a spammer, how to start building your credit score right now as a teen, the importance of time and why 99% of people look at it the wrong way, how to rewire your money blueprint, how to influence others, the secrets of the most successful salesmen and what sets them apart from others, why 97% of youtube channels fail and how you can use the process of “Youtube Automation” to start a successful channel without ever showing your face, how to retire comfortably with a sound financial blueprint, the 10 steps to make money while you sleep, how to turn your interests into income without going broke, and much, much more!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There will be a President, a Vice President, a Director of Outreach, and a Director of Curriculum. To select members for the leadership positions mentioned above, we will send out a Google Forms with questions that include “What makes you a good candidate for the role you are applying for?”, “Do you have any previous experience with the role you are applying for?”, and other questions regarding the position of interest After reviewing responses to the Google Forms, we will schedule interviews with the applicants. We will implement a strike system where three strikes leads to impeachment from a leadership position. Actions that can lead to a strike include missing a club meeting without notice and failing to complete positional duties/requirements on time. Applications for the following year will be reviewed and voted on by the board from the previous year. Members are expected to attend all meetings, or provide notice if planning on missing a meeting. Leaders can be impeached if 50% or more of regular members decide that they are not upholding their duties to the best of their ability.

What makes this activity unique?:
At the Stuyvesant Financial Literacy Club, we teach many valuable, real-life, finance skills and the wealth mindset that aren’t taught in any other club or at Stuy. From getting a credit card and building a credit score as a teenager, to explaining taxes and the importance of wealth mindset, we break down many topics needed to be successful financially. Money comes and goes, but the ability/knowledge to make money stays with you forever.

During our Freshman year, we always wanted to treat ourselves with Pizza every Friday after school. But little did we know that it was going to cost us $2.99 a slice, so we could only afford to eat at home. So over the last year, we dedicated ourselves to learning about money every weekend - in doing so, we learned a lot about the mindset and skills that teenagers can apply to their own lives, not just adults who already have a job making them tens of thousands a year. As a result, the Stuyvesant financial literacy club will be able to teach students and utilize our past mistakes as a tool to help others succeed.

