Mission Statement:
Stuy K-Pop’s mission is to promote an interest in K-Pop within Stuyvesant and provide K-Pop fans with opportunities and exposure to dancing.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday, Friday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The club’s meeting schedule is approximately once a week, but open to adjustments in consideration of annual shows like StuySquad, SING!, and SOS.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy K-Pop's purpose is to create a community within the school that consists of members of different backgrounds who have a passion for Korean pop music and Korean music in general. The main focus of this club will be on teaching and learning choreography from a wide variety of girl groups and boy groups, such as BTS and BlackPink, and also co-ed groups and soloists. In addition to these workshops, there will be more relaxed meetings once in a while where members get together, listen to music, play games, watch Korean shows, etc. 

Members are expected to be respectful to each other and are highly encouraged to be active within the club's Facebook page. Generally, members will meet up approximately once every week to learn choreography from one of the leaders at the beginning of the year. However, members can show up to as many or as few meetings as desired. Later on, members can apply to teach choreography through a Google Form and video submission (details will be on the Facebook page). No dancing experience is necessary!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy K-Pop will benefit Stuyvesant because it creates a safe and welcoming community for all people who are interested in K-Pop. As the Korean music industry garners more and more popularity, not just in Korea but all across the world, more and more people, especially teenagers, also begin to develop an interest. Furthermore, people of all backgrounds are welcome to join Stuy K-Pop. As a result of this, Stuy K-Pop is creating a diverse community that is bonded together by a single factor: music. The Facebook page allows members to post any information/questions regarding K-Pop, keeping the community updated with the latest music (and sometimes drama, food, and other aspects of Korean culture). 

Stuy K-Pop is also mainly centered around the choreography of these songs. In hosting workshops, the club plans to introduce more students to dancing and help them prepare for showcases such as StuySquad and SOS. In addition, by giving members the opportunity to teach choreographies and direct a crew, Stuy K-Pop is providing them with experience for directorship before applying for the aforementioned showcases. Of course, dancing also promotes exercising and staying active! It's a good way to get a daily workout in while having fun and meeting other people who share similar interests! In a school that is constantly stressing the importance of academics, it is important for students to relieve their worries and relax through other means, such as dance and K-Pop.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Either at the end of the previous year or the beginning of each year, the president will post in the Facebook group with a link to a Google Form, inviting any and all members to apply for a position (regardless of grade level). The form consists of questions asking about previous leadership experience, ideas to improve the club, qualities that would make the member a good fit for a position, etc., as well as a mandatory video of the member dancing a K-Pop choreo, seeing as all leaders are expected to teach and hold dance workshops. All leadership positions are assigned by the president(s) of that year but the president(s) may communicate and discuss with the previous leaders throughout the appointment process. All candidates, their responses to all questions, and their video submissions will be carefully read/looked over and considered by current leaders in order to choose the candidates best suited for a position. Leadership positions are announced before the start of the new school year on the club's Facebook page. If the president is to resign or graduate, the vice president(s) takes on the president position. All leaders of the club are expected to fulfill their roles (ie. teach and run club meetings, as well as manage and promote a safe and respectful environment during meetings and in the Facebook group). If any leader is noticed or reported for behavior that is negligent (such as failure to do the roles listed above), disrespectful, inappropriate, etc., the other leaders will investigate the situation accordingly. After consulting with the leader in question and all those involved, the other leaders will discuss and the majority vote will determine whether the leader will be impeached.

Members can also sign up to teach a choreography if they want to, but they must send in a video of them performing the choreography, which must be approved by a leader before they are allowed to teach.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy K-Pop is unique because it is the only organization in Stuy that focuses on Korean pop music. In addition to simply listening, the club is encouraging students to sing and dance to these songs, as well as actively interacting and engaging with others in the community with common interests in not only K-Pop but also other aspects of Korean culture. Stuy K-Pop is one of the few clubs that host regular workshops that promote dancing within the school in preparation for shows such as StuySquad and SOS, and just for having fun and staying active. Furthermore, Stuy K-Pop is open to people of all backgrounds, creating a club that is diverse and accepting of all those with an interest in K-Pop or Korean culture in general.

