Mission Statement:
Stuy Guitar aims to provide the opportunity to learn about art of guitar playing.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings will vary throughout the school year, but we will typically meet once a week. Meetings will fall on Thursdays or Fridays, and although members are encouraged to attend meetings, attendance isn’t mandatory.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Guitar is a community for anyone interested in learning guitar. Members can share or discuss their musical experiences and explore countless guitar styles through various techniques and concepts. We are open to all questions, so don't hesitate to ask us. This club's priority is first and foremost the club members' enjoyment to learning the instrument. Previous guitar experience is not required, as this club will teach you regardless of your skill level, guiding you through every step of the way. Acoustic guitars will be provided for all club members, but feel free to bring your own! Capos and picks will also be available to all members. Meetings are in the form of lessons, practice sessions, or performances. If members would like advice towards learning certain songs, requests will be accepted via Google Forms. We hope to share our love and passion for playing guitar with Stuyvesant, and we hope to see you there!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant High School has its fair share of students interested in the art of guitar-playing. The school offers guitars (classical and steel-string) publicly available for students to practice or play during their free periods. Practicing alone can be harsh, but Stuy Guitar Club offers the opportunity for anyone interested to join a community where you can practice together with passionate students and classmates! Anyone interested in playing guitar can benefit by attending our meetings. Our club desires to enhance students’ understanding of the instrument, introducing new techniques and concepts that will help and improve their playing. We are a network of socialization. Our club provides more than just a learning environment. We want music to be social, for students to form bonds and relations throughout their high school career that will last in the future. Our club wants to serve as an outlet for the stressful times at Stuyvesant. We want to facilitate the pursuit of guitar as a passion, as a means to express creativity. At our core, we offer all students the opportunity to learn about the process of guitar arrangements and compositions. And as such, we allow every student to pursue their style of musical expression through the guitar. To end it off, here are some wise words from our club faculty, Mr. Stephan: "Music is good for your brain."

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Role applications will always stay open. There are two departments within Stuy Fingerstyle: Composition, Education departments. Directors lead their corresponding departments. Members will all enter the club as associates under the education department. The only exceptions are those who completed training or reached beginner level. Beginners may apply for roles as managers: instructors, arrangers, and composers in the education and composition departments. Exceptions to musical training are applications to coordination and technology departments where associates may work under coordinators or technicians as in-trainings (in-training manager). Positions in any department correspond with members’ ability to fulfill their duties. Members may join multiple departments. Failure to fulfill their responsibilities may result in role impeachment. Impeachment of any role is determined based on a 3/4 majority vote within management. Any member may report and file for an impeachment. Role impeachment is considered solely on radical reasoning. We intend to provide a network and a learning environment. Any actions against our purpose may result in expulsion.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Guitar is unique in its focus on arranging and composing guitar instrumentals. In this case, Stuy Guitar focuses on fingerstyle guitar. Fingerstyle is not just a technique or style. It’s more than plucking or picking strings with fingers. It’s a concept. It’s the study of acoustics on the guitar and applications of every aspect of the instrument. Stuy Guitar offers a unique opportunity for students to develop a firm foundation in guitar playing and a deeper understanding of music theory.

