Mission Statement:
To provide a space for Stuy students to learn and discuss American Sign Language and Deaf culture.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet depending on member availability once or twice a month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
American Sign Language is spoken by more than 500,000 people in the United States. Since it is not taught as a language course at Stuyvesant, StuyASL aims to create an environment where anyone who is interested can come to learn about it. StuyASL also hopes to be a place where any Deaf or CODA students can discuss and share their experiences. We hope to be a place to learn bout the history of ASL and other signed languages and about Deaf culture.  In doing these things, we aim to create a supportive environment where anyone can learn ASL vocabulary, structure, and grammar and practice their new skills with others. StuyASL is a low commitment activity, and we hope to create a low stress environment where students can interact and have fun, as well as learn about a topic they are interested in without having to worry about homework or grades.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyASL helps students grow empathy and character to reach for an equitable future for all. Although it is not taught at Stuy, ASL is an important and diverse language that is fun and interesting to learn about. StuyASL fulfills the need for a place to learn ASL and about it, especially since it can be hard to find easily available and accessible resources for learning a language. Members will create memories and friendships lasting far beyond their time at Stuyvesant by learning to communicate with each other through American Sign Language. Most Stuy students have not had any exposure to any form a sign language, so StuyASL provides an opportunity to learn about a language that is very different from any spoken ones. Being culturally aware and able to communicate in new ways is an invaluable skill to succeed in both one’s professional and personal life. Having students who are able to learn new languages and forms of communication is beneficial not only to them, but to the Stuyvesant community as well. We want to open up and engage with each other on different aspects of life and on subjects not taught at Stuy through a language where people might be better able to understand themselves and one another.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
All elections will be held anonymously via google forms. Co-presidents will be appointed by election in the event that a current co-president steps down, graduates, or is impeached. To qualify for election, a member must have attended half of the meetings in the most recent semester, unless they have extenuating circumstances that resulted in their not doing so. Club leaders do not need to be fluent in ASL, but they must show an active interest. Anyone who has attended a third of meetings in the last semester will be eligible to vote for a new co-president. Co-presidents can be impeached if they are disrespectful towards club members, violate SU or Stuyvesant rules, or are not actively present during most meetings. If concerns are raised about a co-president, club members who have attended a third of meetings in the last semester can vote to impeach. Impeachment of a club leader requires more than 50% of votes in order to be successful.

What makes this activity unique?:
There is currently no club at Stuy dedicated to learning about American Sign Language and does not formally teach ASL to students. The ASL club provides a special place where anyone and everyone can explore and discover what makes ASL so unique and important to learn. Joining Stuyvesant’s ASL club will provide a strong network and make bonds with other people that will last for many years. The club will teach and educate students in an informal environment, opening space for people to learn ASL and its history at their own pace.

