Mission Statement:
Upstuycle is for lovers of fashion and crafting who want to exercise their creativity in a sustainable way.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Upstuycle's meetings will occur between three and four times a month, and the meeting day will be set once availability has been gauged. For now, it is tentatively set to Thursday. Since new activities are introduced every meeting, attendance is always optional, but the more meetings attended, the more projects created.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The thrill that comes with buying clothes, room decor, or jewelry pales in comparison to the exhilaration that comes with hand-making a new item out of something you already own. Upstuycle seeks to help every Stuyvesant student experience this feeling and be able to utilize their own creativity to make upcycled pieces they are proud of. Crafting and making clothes or jewelry can seem really daunting, but through guided step-by-step tutorials, each member is guaranteed to create gratifying, one-of-a-kind pieces they would never be able to find at any store. Each meeting will consist of one activity, which will range from thrift-flipping to creating art from scrap paper to turning tin cans into pencil organizers. The possibilities are honestly endless. Members can suggest future activities through a suggestions inbox, and will also be able to vote on which activity they’d want to complete preceding each meeting. Any activity that is chosen is guaranteed to be inclusive, exciting, and, of course, eco-friendly. Members are encouraged to join as many meetings as possible, but since each meeting offers a new activity, there is no need to worry about missing information from any one session. Emails detailing the activity which will be completed will also be sent out before each meeting so that the proper materials can be scouted from around each member’s home. In addition, everyone is welcome to send in pictures of their projects to be featured in a collective online gallery. Overall, upstuycle is dedicated to helping each member make the most of their creativity in ways they might not have considered before, all the while limiting their environmental impact.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The general consensus among Stuyvesant students is that climate change is a massive problem, but the actions that we can actually take seem limited, inconceivable, or both. We really don't have much power in how many cars are on the road, how much of the energy we use is renewable, or how much plastic gets recycled each year, but one thing we can control is our own consumption. Consumerism encourages shopping for unneeded items for pleasure, but ultimately, the more unnecessary shopping that occurs, the more the environment suffers. Upstuycle offers a way for the Stuyvesant community to leave a greener footprint by showing how exciting, sustainable, and fun upcycling can be. Students can spend more time exploring their creativity and less time sending plastic into landfills or supporting unethical brands. They may even declutter their homes in the process! In the distant future, upstuycle can even expand its reach and use trash items found at school to create art, making Stuyvesant a brighter and greener place. There are so many benefits that being a member of upstuycle will bring a Stuyvesant student, and after every meeting, they’ll feel like they’ve helped the environment just a little bit, given a piece of trash or old clothing new life, taken the next step in developing their own style, and have made a new one-of-a-kind piece the world has never seen.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There are three leadership positions that must be filled at any given time: President, Vice President and Secretary. Those who are in positions of leadership will remain in these positions until they either choose to resign or graduate. If a change in leadership takes place, applications will be made available to all members interested in the open position(s) at the end of the school year. The current leaders will carefully review each application and take a vote to elect the new leader(s). Leaders are expected to attend at least two-thirds of a club’s meetings per year. If any leader is found to be displaying unethical or malicious behaviors, either inside or outside of upstuycle, or a general display of disinterest in its activities, they will be asked to resign. If they refuse, they may be impeached by a 50% vote from all members. Should this occur, the position of President will be assumed by the Vice President, and/or the position of Vice President will be assumed by the Secretary. If the position of Secretary is left unfilled, an application will be sent out to all members and the responses will be reviewed by the President and Vice President, who will work together to make a fair decision. Additional roles such as Social Media Manager and Website Designer may be opened up once regular meetings begin, and every member will be encouraged to apply. Again, the leaders will elect their choice for each position. For general members, attendance is encouraged but not mandatory, and respect both from all is expected at every upstuycle meeting.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant offers very few clubs that are dedicated to crafting or fashion, or that work to help the environment. Upstuycle combines both of these into fun and creative activities. The average student wouldn’t pick up a piece of scrap paper or old sock and be struck with inspiration for how to make it into something new, but joining upstuycle would encourage them to do so on a regular basis, even outside of club meetings. Finding potential in “useless” things is a very useful skill that requires a lot of creative thinking, and creativity opens up the mind to innovation in every single aspect of life.

