Mission Statement:
The Research Club aims to provide students with a community to explore their scientific curiosities and resources to get involved in research.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Research Club general meetings are typically held on Fridays. Each SIGMA department holds a meeting at least once every 2-3 weeks and each department has its own designated weekday to meet that does not overlap with that of other departments. SRMP meetings are held twice a month, in addition to one-on-one meetings with a mentor as needed. Notation recording sessions are every other week.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
"The Research Club provides aspiring student researchers with the resources necessary to transform their classroom knowledge into practical scientific experience. 

Members can choose from different branches of the club to join depending on their specific interests: gaining hands-on experience of lab techniques (general meetings), contributing to a STEM publication (SIGMA), receiving mentorship from an upperclassman to secure an internship in a lab (SRMP), having casual discussions about various topics as part of a podcast (Notation), and managing a website and social media platforms (Web Department). 

General meetings consist of weekly guided experiments that expose students to various biological lab techniques. In workshops, members can work on proposals or research for science competitions like Genes in Space. Special events such as symposiums or guest speakers are also occasionally held. Meetings are open to everyone and members are encouraged to, but not required to, attend the weekly meetings.

SIGMA is the Research Club’s magazine, published every 1-2 months. The publication melds STEM and humanities and exposes students to scientific journalism in an accessible format. The publication relies on four departments: the Annotations, Creative Works, Layouts & Graphics, and Revisions departments. The Annotations Department defines terms and summarizes parts of the papers so that they are easier to read. The Creative Works Department writes articles about topics members are interested in. The Layouts & Graphics Department creates all of the graphics and formats the pieces. The Revisions Department makes sure that all the grammar and content is correct; members also write short lab technique reviews. SIGMA members are expected to join 1-2 departments, attend departmental meetings, and complete assignments promptly.

In SRMP, or the Stuyvesant Research Mentoring Program, mentees attend workshops that provide instruction and one-on-one assistance with writing cover letters, resumes, and applications to programs, in addition to helping mentees find their interests and understand what working in a lab entails.

Notation is a podcast hosted by the Research Club. In the episodes, which are released twice a month, members discuss different topics in science, including those that have been covered in past SIGMA articles. Members are expected to independently read about the topic beforehand and contribute to the discussion.

The Web Department manages the Research Club website, updating it with new content as SIGMA is published and working on new features. It is also responsible for updating the Research Club’s Facebook and Instagram accounts with new information, opportunities, and meetings. "

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
"The Research Club benefits Stuyvesant by fostering a community of student researchers with strengths in both conducting research and communicating effectively.

Students will learn how to analyze scientific papers by editing and annotating student-written papers for Stuyvesant’s Research Club Magazine, SIGMA. SIGMA also has a creative works department so members can focus on their own creative pursuits in scientific journalism. 

The club helps students develop and explore their interests in the field of scientific research. For example, the club guides experiments in which students learn how to follow various protocols, how to properly handle lab equipment, and how to interpret data. The club also holds guest lectures from upperclassmen and professional scientists. The lecturers discuss the work they have done in their lab and describe their experience with scientific research. These opportunities allow a student to gain a better understanding of what scientific research entails.

The Research Club helps students brainstorm ideas for scientific competition. In various meetings, students will be given the opportunity to work on completing research papers or project proposals for science competitions, such as Genes in Space. Students are given assistance by the members of the club’s board in addition to the faculty advisor in order to create stronger entries into such competitions. 

The Research Club also has a program specifically designed to mentor underclassmen. The Stuyvesant Research Mentoring Program (SRMP) pairs qualified upperclassmen with underclassmen, who are interested in science research. The program aims to dive deeper into student’s interests for research and secure an internship with a lab. Towards the end of the year, weekly meetings are aimed towards helping students find research opportunities outside of the school, which may include summer research programs or laboratory internships. The Stuyvesant Research Club ultimately helps students who have demonstrated an interest in scientific research but lack the experience or resources to perform research."

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Research Club has various leadership positions to oversee specific aspects of the club as well as editors for the SIGMA publication. Appointment to a position is determined by an application and training period. The applications are open to all freshmen, sophomores, and juniors regardless of their prior experience in the club, though preference may be given to those who have contributed to the club in the past. A portion of the candidates from the application pool are selected for an interview by an interview board which consists of leaders directly involved with the position. After interviews are conducted, the leadership board discusses which candidate to select for training. The selected candidates undergo a training period, during which they work closely with the current leaders of the position they are in training for to gain experience and learn what their responsibilities are. At the end of the training period, if the trainees have performed well and demonstrated the capability to manage their positions’ responsibilities, they are appointed to their position as a leader. Leaders are expected to fulfill their tasks promptly and to communicate with other leaders of the club on a weekly basis. If a leader does not meet the expectations, they are suspended from their position while the leadership board discusses the leader’s performance and if they need to be removed. Most leaders will generally maintain the position that they were in the previous school year with applications released for positions that have an opening. New positions may be added if necessary, based on the suggestions of members of the club and the leadership board.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Stuyvesant Research Club is the only club that promotes the pursuit of scientific research by providing students from all backgrounds the opportunity to be involved in several different facets that compose the scientific community, such as conducting research or disseminating findings. Students have the chance to learn techniques used by researchers in a welcoming environment, to explore their individual interests by writing articles, to apply their artistic skills to a love for STEM through creating graphics, to delve deep into topics of interest in casual conversations, to continue their exploration of scientific research through internships outside of Stuyvesant, and more!

