Mission Statement:
Providing members with real-life entrepreneurship experience. Leadership has experience winning business competitions and starting businesses.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The club envisions meeting on a weekly basis on Thursdays, but the schedule may be adjusted as the year progresses.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The goal of Stuy Startup is to form a community of business-minded students, with or without experience, to learn and execute establishing businesses together. The club aims to provide a learning environment for club members to learn how to start a business from developing their opportunities, to brainstorming business ideas, creating their first prototypes, test marketing, and finally bringing their products onto the open market.
Club leaders will share business formation basics and key processes - such as forming the perfect team as well as subtle details such as the process of naming the brand - and like-minded students can gather to work together and eventually launch as business partners. Stuy Startup is a place where entrepreneurship is fostered, and students are encouraged to take risks and learn from failures and mistakes. By providing a supportive community and resources like mentorship, workshops, and networking opportunities, Stuy Startup hopes to inspire students to become successful entrepreneurs and leaders in their respective fields.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Business-minded students at Stuyvesant can take some classes that will teach them about business and economics. However, those who want to pursue a more in-depth understanding of the field would get a more authentic and engaging experience from starting their own business. While learning solely from an academic standpoint might prepare students for the business world, students often do not have the opportunity to apply their knowledge. By joining Stuy Startup, students will be able to work as a team as they develop their business. They will develop the business with many tasks including bouncing ideas off of each other as well as discovering and utilizing effective marketing strategies. Members will learn from each other along the way and be prepared for their future in the business world. Starting a business by oneself may be intimidating to many students here at Stuyvesant High School. A club where students are able to truly pursue their passion for business for the first time (or add to their past experience) by gaining actual exposure will establish a great foundation for their future careers. After building this solid foundation together, students of the Stuyvesant community will learn how to operate and maintain a successful business.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Stuy Startup has 2 co-presidents and 1 communications director. Though the co-president and positions have been taken, they will be passed to members of the organization that we find to be dedicated, hard-working, and have done much for the club's growth. At the end of the year, the co-presidents will shortlist to a few candidates for the opening positions. From there, an application for the positions will also be given out to each candidate consisting of 4 written-response questions in a google form. There will also be an interview for each leadership position mentioned before. The process of obtaining leadership will carry over between school years when the positions open up. Stuy Startup is also looking for a marketing team, which will consist of a Director of Outreach and a group of 2-3 people to spread the word about the club and see its growth. Again, these positions will be appointed through a google form and interview. Impeachment Procedures: If any club leader neglects their responsibilities or demonstrates improper behavior, a discussion will be held among other club leaders to determine the punishment. A lower level offense will result in a warning, while worse will end in impeachment. Punishment, including up to impeachment, is determined by majority vote of non-violating club leaders. A replacement will then be appointed through the standard application and interview.

What makes this activity unique?:
What makes Stuy Startup unique is that rather than just teaching their members classroom concepts of business startups, the club envisions having like-minded students actually form businesses in order to strengthen their relationships and confidence regarding entrepreneurship. Stuy Startup will still begin with learning basic classroom concepts of starting up a business, but will then pivot towards execution, something that is not commonly found in business courses at school. Leadership at Stuy Startup is also unique because it actually has proven experience in business competitions and entrepreneurship. From winning international hackathons, to actually starting a small business, there's a lot of viable experience that Stuy Startup's 2 co-presidents can share.

