Mission Statement:
By creating art, PublicPalette aims to improve children’s mental health.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We meet around 3 times a month. These meets include events like mural painting or drawing events but we also meet to prepare for these events in terms of financing, design, advertisements etc. Branch directors may have more frequent meetings.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
PublicPalette is a non profit organization that advocates for children’s mental health by creating artworks for children and partnering with charities. PublicPalette hosts meetings where members design and create murals in areas accessible to children, such as hospitals, schools, and daycares. PublicPalette also hosts events where our members can draw, paint, and socialize with children. This way, children have the opportunity to express themselves through art, and they also have the opportunity to see talented artists create artworks for them to keep. PublicPalette members are expected to have patience, passion, and care for the youth. Members are expected to have good social skills and be open to many personalities. Along with attending as many meetings as they can, members are expected to have a passion for art. PublicPalette has 5 branches within the club: Organization, Finance, Outreach, Mural Making, and Mixed Media. The organization branch consists of the club presidents and members who would like to learn how to communicate with outside organizations, plan events, and manage the club’s other branches. The Finance branch consists of members who track the club’s spending. The Outreach branch consists of members who advertise events to the public. The Mural Making and Mixed Media branches consist of the majority of the club. The Mural Making branch consists of members who design and paint murals. The Mixed Media branch consists of members who draw with children.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
PublicPalette provides several benefits to the Stuyvesant community. In addition to offering volunteer hours, PublicPalette provides a way for students to connect with the youth whilst practicing their art skills. PublicPalette fosters compassion and care within Stuyvesant students, who will be able to connect with children who may be dealing with a rough mental state. This also benefits the children themselves by creating a safe space for communication. Although Stuyvesant students can’t necessarily be therapists, these students were also children only a few years ago, and may perhaps provide children a better listening ear than their parents or teachers. The Stuyvesant community will also feel fulfilled knowing that they are contributing towards a larger cause by partnering with charities and organizations that seek to improve the mental health of children. Stuyvesant has been known to house overworked students, who may not know how to deal with their stress due to a lack of mental health resources. However, since many students are interested in art, which is a form of therapy and expression, PublicPalette provides a place where members can better their mental health without even realizing it. Additionally, as for other branches of PublicPalette, Stuyvesant students will be able to get hands-on experience with leadership roles and business management. PublicPalette may be a nonprofit organization but it does function like a business in that it needs proper organization, funding, and successful marketing to thrive. Thus, those who participate in the organization, finance, and outreach branches benefit by gaining knowledge and experience with business management.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There are 5 branches and 1-3 directors per branch. The branches include organization, finance, outreach, mural making, and mixed media. We will have application forms to appoint leaders along with interviews to those who are selected. The organization directors are the club presidents; they hover and maintain other branches along with organizing events, and they have incredible commitment, passion, leadership skills, networking skills and business skills. The finance director must have very good financial abilities and background along with being able to manage and track budgets and spending along with communication skills in order to discuss finances with outsiders like those who will buy our murals. The outreach director must have skills in networking, social media, and marketing in order to maximize the participation of the public in events. Mural Making directors must have experience in designing and painting murals. Mixed media directors also need design and art experience but largely experience in handling events. In order to be considered, applicants must demonstrate leadership qualities along with passion and experience for the specific branch you're applying to. The director is a director for the rest of their Stuyvesant years. When a director resigns, graduates, or is impeached, new leadership roles will be chosen. The current student directors will choose the upcoming student leaders. Future directors will be chosen by current leaders based on their dedication and punctuality. Directors who misuse their position of authority or encourage forbidden behavior, such as racial discrimination, bullying, homophobia, transphobia, sexual harassment, and any other sorts of harmful behavior, will be impeached. If they neglect their duties or fail to show up for meetings, they will also be impeached. Any member is free to bring up complaints about any student director. The complaint's topic will be addressed. The position of the student director will be reviewed if the problem persists or if several more complaints are made against them. The directors reserve the right to expel members of the club if necessary.

What makes this activity unique?:
While many art clubs focus solely on art itself, PublicPalette also delves in areas regarding volunteering and the development of students as people, not just artists. Through our commitment to providing a safe space for children, we not only improve our own lives but also uplift those in need, particularly children facing various challenges. Other clubs tend to focus on scientific research, honing skills, and physical health, but what many clubs and organizations throughout the world fail to focus on is mental health. Mental health issues may begin from young ages. In fact, many Stuyvesant students themselves deal with mental health issues originating from academic stresses and parental disapproval. Yet, PublicPalette is one of the only clubs that truly addresses mental health issues and seeks to solve them from when they are first created: as children. In essence, our organization isn't just about creating art; it's about fostering compassion, resilience, and unity within our community and beyond. PublicPalette does so in a unique way: by creating artworks. Although many clubs indulge in art expression, PublicPalette creates murals, a more conspicuous art form that perhaps has a more sizable impact than others. What truly sets us apart is our dedication to drawing with others, whether it's creating personalized artworks or painting murals that liven neglected spaces. PublicPalette is made to make art expression more publicized by encouraging children to create art. Oftentimes, clubs engage in private meetings to make indirect intended impacts, but PublicPalette conquers issues head-on by communicating directly with children instead of just funding other children’s organizations. PublicPalette is also one of the few clubs that operates like a business, involving artistic branding, business management skills, financial decision-making, and effective outreach to maximize our impact.

