Mission Statement:
Stuy Classical Music Listeners aims to provide students with free opportunities to see performances from the NYC Ballet and New York Philharmonic.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will be based off of availabilty polls.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Classical Music Listeners is a club open to anyone with even the tiniest bit of interest for Classical Music and Ballet. Through partnerships with NYC musicians, this club provides free tickets to those who wish to see performances by the New York City Ballet and New York Philharmonic. In addition to providing opportunities to see live performances, Stuy Classical Music Listeners provides students with an environment to share their interest in Classical Music. In meetings, we hope to get together to listen and discuss Classical Music together. In order to get tickets, forms will be sent out before upcoming performances. There are a limited number of tickets, so it will be first come first serve. If someone receives a ticket, they will not be considered for the next 3 ticket opportunities so that everyone has an equal opportunity to receive tickets. There will be sporadic ticket opportunities throughout the year depending on when we can get them.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Classical music concerts are expensive! Therefore, many within the Stuyvesant community, despite having an interest in Classical Music, are unable to attend classical music performances. This club aims to remedy that by giving those students opportunities to foster their interest by seeing live performances by the New York City Ballet and New York Philharmonic. Music is something which has a healing power. Classical music is something which can touch us deeply emotionally and move us all. By providing an environment where students can all get together to appreciate classical music, students can all experience the transformative power of classical music. Furthermore, students can discover new beautiful music. A student's new favorite piece is always just one recommendation away. In a world dominated by pop music, it is often very hard to find anyone who loves composers like Beethoven, Bach, and Tchaikovsky over pop musicians like Ariana Grande and Taylor Swift. This club provides the opportunity to find those Beethoven, Bach, and Tchaikovsky lovers. Additionally, classical music is by far the best type of music to study to, so by introducing Stuyvesant students to classical music, we are improving people's study habits. Classical music is a language that everyone can speak and Stuyvesant Classical Music Listeners hopes to extend that language to all those who want it.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Stuy Classical Music Listeners will have two presidents who will stay in power until they graduate or are impeached. When these presidents graduate, the club will be transferred to the two candidates most capable of leading the club and maintaining a strong connection with NYC musicians so that free ticket opportunities can still happen. The club executive board will have a vice president, secretary, and an outreach director. These board members will be appointed by the presidents and will be appointed based on who is the most qualified for the role. The vice president will help run meetings and will help carry out the duties of the presidents. The secretary will help with managing the club as well as any necessary paperwork. The outreach director will help promote the club, run the social media accounts, and maintain the connections with NYC musicians. All board members will have to reapply at the beginning of each semester. Any leader who does not fulfill their responsibilities will be removed.

What makes this activity unique?:
While there are a multitude of clubs at Stuyvesant dedicated to music, there is currently no club dedicated to just the appreciation of classical music. Many students have an interest in classical music, but wish to share that interest through Classical Music appreciation rather than musical performance. Stuy Classical Music Listeners plays into that perfectly by allowing such students to discuss and appreciate music with others as well as potentially attend performances by the New York City Ballet and New York Philharmonic.

