Mission Statement:
StuySPICE aims to advocate and raise awareness for people with disabilities in order to create a more inclusive and equal community for everyone.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We meet every Thursday after school along with virtual meetings [at different times of the month]

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuySPICE is one of Stuy’s initiatives that invites all to participate in its vision of promoting inclusivity and reshaping mindsets. We’re an open community welcoming anyone interested in advocating for people with disabilities while focusing on changing the ableist mindset. During our weekly meetings, students get the chance to share perspectives, ask questions, and contribute to decision-making processes. Commitment in our club can be flexible, but we do value members who consistently participate and are passionate about making an impact. We plan to feature special guest speakers and hold field trips to Tweed Courthouse and other places where members can interact with leaders across different high schools. StuySPICE aims to work with those who are willing to build solutions to issues that matter in our community while developing leadership qualities and public speaking skills. We hope you’ll join us in our fight, and we look forward to seeing you at the table.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
By participating in StuySPICE, members are offered a new perspective on the issues surrounding people with IEP status and an opportunity to take action. Through collaboration on impactful projects and open discussion, those who take part are encouraged to think both analytically and creatively to advance inclusivity and disability recognition. This makes our community a great platform to develop a voice for meaningful contributions to society with others who share the same passion. Members leave knowing that the impact of their efforts leaves positive change in the lives of the disabled in our community and others through interaction with leaders. We also focus on participants recognizing a new positive outlook and empathy towards individuals with IEP statuses. Continued participation may also open doors to community service opportunities and valuable experience in networking with individuals across the city. With each interaction and collaboration, members build character, leadership qualities, and confident speech, allowing them to articulate their opinions with clarity. Members will also learn how to use proper language and terminology to address those with disabilities in not only our school but also in many different communities. In the end, StuySPICE empowers compassionate and capable advocates who are ready to work towards our mission and tackle issues professionally.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Stuy SPICE consists of a President who is the bridge between the outer initiative and the smaller Stuy chapter. They will take care of making sure curriculum is up to date, keeping close contact with other student leaders of other schools and the Department of Education to make sure club functions as efficient as possible. The President will be assisted by a Vice President who carries out administrative activities alongside President. When the President and Vice President graduate, elections for these positions will be held, after a brief mentorship period. Other leaders receive a one-year term in which elections will be held via Google Form through an application process each June.  These positions include Secretary, Director of Marketing, Community Outreach, and Program Director Applications will be reviewed by the Board. If ⅔ of the club vote for impeachment, impeachment will occur. If ½ vote out, warning will be given. After three warnings, automatic impeachment.

What makes this activity unique?:
We offer a special approach to encouraging empathy and spreading awareness for people with disabilities and IEP status. Unlike other clubs, StuySPICE prioritizes that members have tangible opportunities to advocate for change and not only be educated about the issue and the possible solutions. Students who contribute to this goal of creating a more inclusive and equal environment earn themselves the status of being good citizens of the world, knowing that they’ve done meaningful work toward the betterment of society. We put effort into creating a blend of education, advocacy, and meaningful action that equips students with the tools and mindset they need. The fact that this is more than an activity or a discussion of problems makes StuySPICE a truly unique experience.

