Mission Statement:
The goal of this club is to prep students (primarily sophomores) for the AP Chemistry Course and AP Exam in May.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, but will probably be once ever week for questions/ preparations for unit content for AP chemistry. Also, on the Monday or Friday before an AP Chemistry exam will we hold a review questions to answer questions and cover general content that is important to know for the specific test.
Also, during May, might meet (online/ in-person) twice a week to do test prep for the AP Chemistry exam.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Hello to all AP Chemistry students! As you probably know, AP Chemistry by far not the easiest course, especially if you're taking the sophomore AP Chemistry course in Stuyvesant High School. The AP Chemistry course may stress students out, due to the  difficult computational and conceptual aspects. Sometimes, as you progress through this course, you may feel stuck, anxious, worried about upcoming exams, especially the AP exam itself in May. However, if that's the case, don't worry, the AP Chemistry Tutoring Club has your back.

The AP Chemistry Tutoring Club is a club run by juniors and seniors with the purpose of helping students who are struggling (or simply want to do better) in the course. Students/ tutees will be offered practice questions and lessons which will help students to ace their exams and overall, not have to stress out about AP Chemistry.
Also, this club is student-run, therefore tutors/ volunteers are needed to maximize the capabilities of the club. As a result, upperclassmen in this club who already took the AP Chemistry exam can join the club to volunteer to tutor students that are currently in the AP Chemistry course.
For all students here, whether a student taking it or a student that finished it, I hope that we, the AP Chemistry Tutoring Club, can have a deep understanding of the Chemistry course, and pass our knowledge to the future students of Stuyvesants. :)

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
We all understand that AP Chemistry in sophomore year of Stuyvesant is extremely rough, even to those who took APES/ AP Biology. A student in the course is expected to perform computations and understand conceptual ideas proficiently, in addition to performing well on the AP exam.
Throughout the years, this class/ course has continued to be trouble for sophomores with tons of stress due to disappointing assessment grades and confusion in class material. As a result, the purpose of the AP Chemistry Tutoring Club is to provide a test-prep/ tutoring service which helps to diagnose specific mistakes that students make, and therefore prevent them from making similar mistakes during an actual exam. Furthermore, it provides a student experience in what to expect in a certain unit of AP Chemistry, ultimately providing students a strong understanding of content material as they're taking the course.
This club is beneficial to the Stuyvesant community by providing help to all sophomore AP Chemistry students who are struggling with the course and wish to improve on their test-taking skills. As a result of participating in a club, a student can feel more confident and less stressed about the rigorous AP Chemistry curriculum and as a result, ace not only the AP Chemistry course, but also the AP Chemistry exam in May.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions are based on contribution (for example co-presidents of the club, potential mangers of servers and people willing to set up lesson plans). After sufficient contribution, a person may be allowed to hold a higher executive position in the club the following year. Also, leadership will be usually transferred to a junior/ senior that has been tutoring or participated in the club previously and has a strong fundamental understanding of the AP Chemistry course and therefore sufficiently able to run the club. Furthermore, the student(s) in executive positions are expected to put in work to adjust to changes in the curriculum of AP Chemistry classes and provide useful and up-to-date resources for tutees/ members in the club.

All tutees are expected to at least complete homework assignments/ questions given in order to be prepared for the next meeting. Students will not be expected to get everything correct, however to simply do the best to their ability in order to diagnose a student's strengths and weaknesses. 

All tutors are expected to be productive and provide aid/ help to any questions that a tutee has. Furthermore, tutors are expected to abide proper conduct in order to maximize productivity during a club meeting/ online tutoring session.

What makes this activity unique?:
Unlike other chemistry-based clubs, our club is specifically targeting the AP Chemistry exam and course through the use of lessons and test preparations. Instead of just teaching the course and going over questions that students ask, we also would like to provide practice tests/ resources which will be reviewed to aid the student with test-taking skills (for both the Stuyvesant-curriculum and the AP Chemistry exam, with constant low scores in exams of certain units during the past years of the course).
In practice, this club will probably assign homework/ questions per week which will then be reviewed and perform error analysis to figure out students' weak points and help them to correct common mistakes or misunderstandings of specific types of questions in AP Chemistry exams.

 Our goal is to help as many students as possible to get a 5 on the AP Chemistry exam and to also perform well in the AP Chemistry course mainly for sophomores in Stuyvesant (which continues to be notorious for its harshness in exams).

