Mission Statement:
The Patriots Club seeks to provide a safe environment for free speech on political discourse between people of all different beliefs and ideologies.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Wednesday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The club meets once every other week, to be decided based upon member availability.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
In a cosmopolitan environment such as NYC, those on the right side of the political spectrum are often censored/silenced for their conservative views. The Patriots Club provides a platform for meaningful conversations about contemporary political and cultural issues through its hosting of open and free discussion in addition to hosting dialogue with other political clubs at Stuyvesant. Club members are expected to contribute dialogue and defend their opinions, both within the club circle and when the Patriots club engages with other entities. 
To reiterate, The Patriots Club welcomes all people, whether they are Conservative, Liberal, Apolitical or subscribed to any other ideology. Our sole purpose is to provide an environment where speech can flow freely, and productive conversations can be had. In an urban and cosmopolitan environment such as Stuyvesant, those on the right side of the political spectrum are often silenced and shunned for expressing their beliefs and ideas. The patriots club provides a platform for meaningful conversations about hot-button and contemporary political issues through its hosting of open discussion as well as events based around dialogue with other political clubs at Stuyvesant. These events are in dire need to foster both an exchange of ideas and a diversity of thought that are missing greatly from the atmosphere of both the school and the city. Most of the time, the club is an open floor to discuss whatever issue is in the news or on the minds of members, but the patriots club also prepares for conversations on specific topics, which then becomes the focus of the session. Club members are expected to contribute dialogue and defend their opinions, both within the club circle and when the patriots club engages with other political clubs.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
In these dark times of American History, where hyper-polarization is the norm, it is necessary for genuine and meaningful conversations to be had. In this day and age, many people are censored or even self-censored to the fear of “cancelation” or worse. We must seek to bridge the divide between the ideologies in this country by way of honest conversation. The Patriots Club provides a public forum for students at Stuyvesant to do just that. The future will be built by the youth, and so we the youth must be better than the generations that have preceded us, and have these free conversations about how to improve the future of this Country, otherwise, our Republic may well cease to exist. Again, The patriots club's primary is as a free speech safe haven, and its benefits flow from that. Although it caters to students on the right who feel alienated from the hostile political environment of Stuy, progressives are strongly encouraged to join in order to develop a varied opinion upon which to structure conversation. By including conservatives, the club extends the overton window of acceptable political discourse to encompass a greater thought population, and the ensuing disagreement leads to a fruitful and insightful clash of philosophies and ideologies. This provides the opportunity to witness worldviews come into contact with one another, and in justifying one's positions get at the root of differences of opinion. Through the patriots club, students are able to grow in their ability to utilize rhetoric and verbalize their thoughts in a manner that is both persuasive and rational. In conversations among club members, students can work on their logical argumentation techniques through a thorough dissection of claims and rebuttals. In conversations with other clubs, students can work on employing rhetorical strategies to present their ideas publicly in a convincing manner. Additionally, through the intellectual diversity of the club, students are able to enrich their understanding of alternate positions and mature in their personal political outlooks.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The club has a few gradations in leadership, including president, vice president and officer. Leaders are appointed based on their commitment and contribution to the club, which takes into account one’s seniority, engagement in club activities and meetings, and value added to administrative and logistical conversations. These apply both in transfers between years and within years, but appointments for president and vice president will most likely not occur during the year. The appointment to officer will occur if there is unanimous agreement between the president and vice president. The president and vice president will work together to appoint their successors, by discussion and subsequent vote. If a member wants a leadership position, they need to show their commitment by attending most meetings and by adding value both during the meeting and in research for other events. If this is done they may be appointed as officers by the president and vice president and given greater responsibility over a particular area of club concern. Between years, the club will be entrusted with members of years long participation who understand the landscape, as well as the club’s goals. Such members will be appointed president and vice president by the incumbents presiding after they have talked about and voted on them. The impeachment process will occur if a club leader isn't performing their duties adequately-which is to the discretion of the president and vice president-or if a club leader violates rules. Such impeachments will be discussed among club leaders and voted on by all club leaders except for those under scrutiny. Impeachments will only occur under unanimous consent unless such an action will threaten the continued functioning of the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
The patriots club is a bastion of intellectual diversity and the free exchange of ideas, in its acceptance of dialogue with ideologies of all colors and stripes. What is proprietary is the club’s expansion of the realm of discourse to include conservatives, which makes for productive political showdowns. This environment allows students to participate and observe genuine discourse where all sides are given the freedom they deserve, both to express their opinions and be criticized for them. It is for this reason that there is unparalleled intellectual development within the patriots club, because it is the only club that permits such a detailed engagement with varied ideas.

