Mission Statement:
The Stuy Photography Club aims to be an outlet for all interested in photography, whether a beginner or a professional.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Wednesday, Tuesday, Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule is set for once a month-twice a month on weekdays (not Friday), in which meetings are used to review challenge submissions and for fun, in-school missions or learning new techniques and styles.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuy Photography Club is a creative community that aims to bring together passionate photographers at Stuyvesant—both beginners and advanced. Through our meetings, everyone will be able to master the basics of digital photography: aperture, shutter speed, ISO, interpreting histograms, and white balance. Students will also be taught how to edit using Adobe Lightroom to develop their own editing style and understand the different aspects that make up an image: saturation, clarity, tone, and sharpness. They will also learn about the history of photography and explore the work of famous photographers such as Cindy Sherman and Ansel Adams. On top of that, club members will inspire and learn from each other as they work together on monthly challenges and tasks that will be displayed on our website and in school: be it noir portraits, street photography, or fall colors - oranges, yellows, etc. After given a theme, students will venture out into the city on their own to complete the challenge. Then they will participate in group critiques and receive helpful feedback on their work. This process will help club members find their own voices and develop their styles. These pieces will amount to a yearly exhibition that shows their progress and artistic development.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant’s renewed Photography Club will continue to provide and help Stuyvesant students with a passion, question, or interest in photography to find a structured and creative outlet for their work. Through monthly challenges, we hope to engage members and challenge their creativity in exploring photography through various prompts, styles, and ideas. In addition, our peer review system for reviewing submissions will help foster relationships amongst the group, as well as helping each other to develop and identify photo styles unique to each member. When monthly challenge submissions are due, members sit round-table and discuss what they love about member submissions, as well as constructive and light critiques on potential future improvements. In addition, fun icebreakers and group in-school challenges will help club members to make new friends easily and have fun while exploring their passions. As students explore props, cameras, and applications together, their shared struggle and success will help foster friendships and an experience to relax and wind down, laugh and learn, or get a little competitive depending on the meeting planned. Photography Club members will also be able to use their challenge photos to build a creative portfolio and even decide whether they want to pursue a career in the arts, film, or photography. Lastly, with the Photography Club being a gateway for many to discover their love for photography, the club can also help spawn new photographers for Stuyvesant’s Spectator and other publications, as well as for school events as well as external affairs.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There are a few leadership positions that the Stuyvesant Photography Club has. The two club presidents manage and coordinate the majority of club activities and events such as meetings, monthly challenges, exhibitions, etc. They also manage the financial side of things and send out emails regarding any updates or announcements. The club also has a social media manager that manages the club’s social media accounts like Facebook, Instagram, and TikTok.They are responsible for keeping track of the engagement on each platform and sending out any updates and announcements through them. As long as they are active in the club, all members are eligible to apply for any leadership positions in the club. As the second semester of the school year begins, the presidents send out a Google Form with questions such as “What position are you applying for?” and “What makes you a good leader?” which will help decide who is suitable for the future leadership positions. The presidents will then decide who will move on to the next stage of leadership applications, in which the members will be interviewed by the current presidents. The presidents will then appoint the leaders-in-training, who will then take over their positions the following school year. For impeachment procedures, if any board member receives a complaint that complaint will be discussed with both they who made the complaint as well as the rest of the board. If the board votes 3 out of 4 (majority vote) to impeach on those grounds, then the board member will be impeached.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Stuyvesant Photography Club is very casual, and it does not require too much commitment. The club is fun and relaxed, but the members still get to learn from each other during every single meeting. Looking at everyone’s photos individually and discussing them as a group makes the club extremely engaging, while also allowing the opportunity for members to learn from each other and strive to improve. The club is unique in the fact that it revolves around the idea of learning and being inspired by other club members and encouraging them to push their creative limits.

