Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Sticky Fingers bring Ultimate Frisbee to the Stuyvesant community, allowing players from Stuyvesant to compete in games and tournaments

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our practices are held twice during the school week, and once on the weekend. Tournaments are every month in the fall and spring seasons. We post on our Facebook group before each meeting and event with info.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Sticky Fingers exists to play Ultimate Frisbee. Representing Stuyvesant High School, we practice often on fields in Upper Brooklyn and travel, often out of state, to tournaments and competitions. No prior experience is necessary because we will teach you the basics such as throwing and movement on the field. Ultimate Frisbee is a team sport, relying on all the members to contribute the game on the field, even if you're not on the point! From handlers moving the disc, to cutters advancing it forward, to the sideline shouting calls and guidance to those on the field, the teamwork involved is critical. As beginners practice and develop more skills, they will be exposed to a more advanced level of play. The people you make bonds with on Ultimate are not just limited to the sport: they will be your friends outside of the field as well! Pick up a disc and join this tight knit community of athletes!

Joining Ultimate is a commitment to work hard! Showing up to most, if not all, practices is a good indication of your commitment. Members are required to purchase a pair of cleats if they are committed to playing Ultimate Frisbee. They are recommended to have a disc on them as well. Practice throwing outside of practice is a very strong recommendation.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Ultimate Frisbee is a growing force in the world of sports in the United States, with an estimated 7 million players in the phenomenon worldwide. The Stuyvesant Sticky Fingers, as Stuyvesant's Ultimate Frisbee team, provides an outlet to Ultimate within the Stuyvesant and New York community. Ultimate Frisbee is more difficult to come across in New York due to the urban cityscape, making field space less readily available and thus more competitive. We provide students interested in playing competitive Ultimate Frisbee with the opportunity to play at practice, games, and tournaments. By having us, Stuyvesant is put at the forefront of one of the world's thriving sport.
Ultimate Frisbee at Stuyvesant brings many additional benefits to the community. Many Ultimate Frisbee players form close bonds with one another, allowing members to find their niche within the Stuyvesant community. Ultimate Frisbee members often take pride in their association with the sport: many graduating seniors have taken their yearbook photo with a Stuyvesant disc in hand. It also gives kids a reason to go outside and enjoy the outdoors while doing something fun. It may even help with the transition to college, as Ultimate Frisbee is a very popular and frequent way to make new friends by establishing the commonality between two people.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
It is standard to have 2 senior captains and 1 or 2 junior captain for the Boy's A team. Captains are selected each year through a discussion between coaches and that year's captains. Commitment and leadership qualities are the factors for potential captainship. After the coaches and captains have narrowed down the candidates to one senior and one junior, they are informed about it during the final team meeting and it is there where it is announced.

Impeachment also works through communications through the non-offending captains and the coaches. If a captain is noted to demonstrate poor captainship, it is discussed between the other captains and the coaches. The offending captain will be informed of his behavior through a dialogue. If the offender does not change his behavior, a decision is made by the coaches and the other captains to remove the offending captain from his position and to pick a new, more suitable captain to fulfill the leadership role.

What makes this activity unique?:
Ultimate Frisbee is a sport unlike any other, both mechanics wise and gameplay wise. Ultimate Frisbee combines the skills of various sports into one. In addition, a disc is used rather than a ball, which allows for a different style of gameplay than more traditional sports. The flying and floating nature of a disc create opportunities for players to make amazing plays, such as ""skys"" and ""layouts"".

Ultimate players follow what is known as the Spirit of the Game. In Ultimate Frisbee, players call their own violations and have civilized discussion as to their reasoning. Often, if a player was in the wrong and is aware of it, he or she will display true sportsmanship and admit the error/violation.

The Stuyvesant Sticky Fingers has a uniquely close community. Our team has practices, scrimmages, and tournaments all throughout the year unlike other sports which are practiced for just one season. We even meet for weekly scrimmages over the summer. The Sticky Fingers Alumni are very connected to the team with over 100 showing up to the anual alumni tournament. The team organizes and other events to bring the team closer together.

