Mission Statement:
Stuy Skate aims to spread the joy of skateboarding.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Biweekly, depending on the weather. Thursdays after school, subject to change depending on members' availability.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
All skill levels welcomed. Learn how to skateboard or continue skateboarding with a welcoming community of skaters within Stuy. In addition to meetings located at the skatepark right outside of Stuy, we will hold fundraisers to raise money for skateboarding non-profits like the Concrete Jungle Foundation that build skateparks and run youth programs around the world. Join Stuy Skate to escape school stress and find joy in this sport about individual progression rather than competition. This is a club of encouragement and enthusiasm, a safe space for everyone to skate no matter their skill level. We hope to create a progression video at the end of the year in which we combine clips of everyone's accomplishments - even if it's something small like riding down a ramp. This is the official Stuy skateboarding club but we are open to bmx and scooters as well! Also if you are interested in filming clips / videography you should also join the club, get the oppurtunity to film skate clips .(how cool is that?!)

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
To escape school stress and find joy in skateboarding and form a community of skaters at Stuy. This is a club of encouragement and enthusiasm, a safe space for everyone to skate no matter their skill level. We hope to create a progression video at the end of the year in which we combine clips of everyone's accomplishments - even if it's something small like riding down a ramp. It's good stress-free exercise. For a lot of people skateboarding is really different from anything you have ever done! Try something new and who knows - maybe you'll fall in love with skateboarding. Leaders will provide guidance in learning basics and new tricks, but most importantly will foster a positive attitude within the club. It's a unique support because everyone is so supportive no matter what level you are at. The important thing is that you try and come with a positive attitude.We hope to create a progression video at the end of the year in which we combine clips of everyone's accomplishments - even if it's something small like riding down a ramp. This will be great to highlight how no matter where you start you will always make progress as long as you were skating.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Anyone that has demonstrated intrerest in skateboarding with a can-do attitude & is ready to spread encouragment is a good candidate to be a leader. These postioins will be appointed for the next year by the current President and leader(s). Impeachment will occur if members of the club discuss a specific issue with the club president who disregards the message. This will be vote-based. Leaders should provide guidance in learning basics and new tricks, but most importantly will foster a positive attitude within the club.There is a zero-tolerance policy for bullying - if it is reported that a leader or president has participated in this, it will be investigated and if found guilty they will be impeached. If a member feels put down or disincouraged, they should report it immediately to the leader/president that was not involved. If they do not seem to be taking action, the club members can form a union to impeach both leaders.

What makes this activity unique?:
For a lot of people skateboarding is really different from anything you have ever done! Try this actions sport for the first time and who knows - maybe you'll fall in love with skateboarding. Leaders will provide guidance in learning basics and new tricks, but most importantly will foster a positive attitude within the club. It's a unique support because everyone is so supportive no matter what level you are at. We hope to create a progression video at the end of the year in which we combine clips of everyone's accomplishments - even if it's something small like riding down a ramp. This will be great to highlight how no matter where you start you will always make progress as long as you were skating.

