Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Reform Club aims to educate students in political theory and encourage students to experiment with policy and civic reform.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will vary throughout the year, but generally be at least once a month. [MWF]

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Reform Club is intended to educate students on the theory of government, the various forms of government practiced around the world, and how different systems and techniques of government can be applied to solve issues of the political system. It will educate students on major political issues surrounding the government and the causes and effects of these issues, as well as potential solutions to these problems which will help create a more well-functioning government. Members will be expected to partake in orderly and well-researched discussions of ideas and concepts, draft organized and well-conceived proposals for reforms, and offer fair and justified criticism of others' ideas in order to help the club arrive at a consensus for reform proposals. Members will be expected to remain civil, not allow partisan biases to cloud reason and debate, and to respect all ideas for reform of the United States Government to promote good governance.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
"This activity will primarily benefit Stuyvesant by increasing awareness of the importance and significance of the design of government, the principles by which it should be organized, and how the modern US government can be improved. This activity will also allow students to gain an understanding of how politics and government is conducted in other countries, as well as how differences in government and institutions can produce varying results for nations. By instilling a strong understanding of institutions, their design, and their importance in the continuation of the Republic, the Stuyvesant Reform Club will not only prepare students to engage with government actively, but also to be architects of government in their own right, an essential skill in today's world where reforms are clearly needed.

This activity, by its nonpartisan and government-focused nature, will also teach students to respect each others' opinions and enrich the political scene at Stuyvesant by not just having students discuss the ideas of others, but also to produce their own original ideas and debate them in a civil manner before creating proposals which could be put into place in the real world such as ballot measures or other model legislation. Such activities will enrich the Stuyvesant Community.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
"The club will be organized by an Organizing Committee and a Secretary-Moderator. There will be no Club President or similar. The Organizing Committee shall consist of 5 students initially, with this number subject to change from year-to-year based on the discretion of the current organizing committee, with all membership size changes taking effect in the following election for Organizing Committee (OC). 

The OC will be elected every year at a time determined by the OC, and shall be elected through simple approval voting. The OC will be responsible for organizing and scheduling meetings and activities, conducting dialogue with the SU and school administration, and generally conducting the business necessary to sustain the functioning of the club. The OC will also appoint a Secretary-Moderator from the general membership every year. 

The role of the Secretary-Moderator is to ensure debates remain civil, to take minutes, and to ensure the smooth running of club meetings. 

The Secretary-Moderator and the OC may be removed from office at any time if proof of misconduct or abuse of power is brought forth by a member of the club, and a majority of the club votes to remove the offending club official. At that point, an immediate replacement election for an OC member, or a replacement pick for the Secretary-Moderator is conducted."

What makes this activity unique?:
Our organization is unique because it encourages students to think critically not just about politics from an electoral standpoint or a procedural one, but from a perspective of using power to solve problems. The Reform Club will thus be a nonpartisan and purely policymaking-focused club. We encourage students to think of how government can be used to improve the lives of people, and also how government itself can be improved to better serve the general welfare. The club will encourage students not just to paraphrase politicians, but to come up with their own genuine ideas for reform and policy, and to debate them civilly. They shall be student legislators. Not student partisans. Not student debaters. Student legislators, who shall focus on fixing problems, not rooting for a political party or trying to "win" a debate.

