Mission Statement:
StuyBio is a welcoming environment where members can explore biology and biology-related fields like public health and prepare for the USA Biolympiad.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies but we meet around 3 times a month in general and more frequently near the USABO or for events.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyBio aims to provide its members with high quality education in biology and biology-related fields, as well as prepare its members for the USABO, an annual competition utilized for selection of the US International Biology Olympiad team. To do so, we host weekly lessons on the USABO curriculum, such as plant biology or anatomy. To supplement this, we also organize events, such as guest speakers, collaborations with other clubs, and lab events to allow for members to get hands-on experience and to hear from leaders in the biology field. This allows for our members to not only do well on competitions, but to also learn more about if a career in biology is good for them. Members are expected to attend lessons as well as certain events, as this will prepare them to excel when taking the USABO as well as in their biology careers. Furthermore, members are expected to maintain a respectful and open attitude to learning about a variety of subjects and approach all subject matter with a curious mind.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyBio provides members with a unique selection of resources and an environment that will nurture their love for biology and help them advance their interests in the field, be it academically or professionally, beyond high school. The club welcomes an all-inclusive spectrum of students with varying experience in biology, as StuyBio seeks to inspire a genuine interest in biology within every member. StuyBio members have access to a plethora of resources, such as detailed lessons, original problem sets written by board members, recordings of club meetings, a variety of undergraduate and graduate-level textbooks, and individualized tutoring by upperclassmen who have experience with the content and format of the USABO and have seen success in previous years. The monthly events are another great way for members to engage and gain firsthand experience with various aspects of biology all the while building meaningful relationships with like-minded peers. Members also gain access to an extensive archive of lessons and materials from previous years, which they may utilize to solidify their understanding of concepts introduced during club meetings. And perhaps most important of all, StuyBio offers members the opportunity to immerse themselves in a community that is both relaxed and fun, while also keeping the academic rigor characteristic of Stuyvesant. Anyone struggling with biology is more than welcome to join, and StuyBio can help them understand any difficult concepts, ensuring that they can excel in both present and future biology coursework.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
At the conclusion of every school year, the StuyBio board conducts a leadership recruitment cycle to welcome a new board for the next year. Members who have been a part of the club for at least one year and who have demonstrated their devotion to the club both as an active member and as someone who strives to utilize their skill set in service of the club, are encouraged to submit an application form designed to gather information about their past leadership experience and relevant coursework. After a thorough round of submissions review, the President and Vice Presidents will then schedule an interview with strong applicants to discuss their application and gauge how they may fit into the larger landscape of the board. Based on the results of the interview, the current board may schedule a position-specific technical analysis session. Applicants must demonstrate a deep passion for biology, strong leadership skills, and the ability to collaborate and take initiative. Finally, applicants are notified by email of their final application results.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyBio is the only club at Stuyvesant entirely dedicated to biology and biology related-learning. The club offers extensive study resources to accommodate all learning styles and teaches biology at a level beyond the average classroom setting. StuyBio strives to maintain its community of enthusiastic scientists that is wholly passionate not only about delving into biology but also about mentoring and caring for its members. This is why StuyBio caters resources to and welcomes all students coming from varying levels of exposure and experience to biology. Although preparing for the USABO examinations can be intense and challenging, StuyBio seeks to bring a distinct collaborative approach to studying by delivering high-quality materials and encouraging insightful discourse amongst members. In combination with its biweekly lessons and engaging events, StuyBio ensures all members a uniquely complete high school biology experience, enabling them to not only explore advanced biology topics through several lenses but also to then apply their newfound knowledge and see their hard work pay off. StuyBio's unique niche as a gateway into the world of biology makes it an essential club for the STEM community at Stuyvesant to initiate their entry into the STEM world.

