Mission Statement:
StuySails aims to give students the opportunity to learn how to sail and to give current sailors the resources to improve their sailing skills.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will vary but meetings will be twice a month on Mondays or Fridays, possibly with more meetings to accommodate special events.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuySails is a club that teaches students how to sail, organizes sailing trips along the Hudson River and provides access to high school dinghy racing in the tri-state area. This club aims to teach absolute beginners about this amazing sport and also to help current sailors improve their racing skills. Meetings will be held on Fridays or Mondays at least twice a month, with occasional events that may be on other days. Sailing is a mostly white, adult-male dominated sport, and this club would try to change that by giving students at Stuyvesant access to this amazing pastime. The mission of StuySails is to increase diversity in sailing. StuySails will teach students how to sail as well as about the history of sailing. It also aims to provide access to the high school dinghy racing circuit and provide access to resources for current dinghy racers to improve their skills and tactics. The club will also watch sailing competitions together such as the Olympics, SailGP and the America's Cup.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuySails will benefit the Stuyvesant community by teaching people about and giving them access to an amazing sport and hobby. Sailing is a sport that almost all students in New York City do not have access to, but it is an amazing sport that is athletic, intelligent and environmentally friendly, so having a sailing club at Stuyvesant will be incredibly beneficial. As well as benefiting Stuy, having a sailing club will benefit the sailing community by making the sport more diverse and accessible. This club will also benefit current dinghy racers by providing access to high school racing in the tri-state area, which has historically been dominated by students from disproportionately wealthy families. Having better access to sailing regardless of a family's income will improve the sport as a whole and create more diverse sailing community. Sailing is also a sport that is very close to nature and helps raise awareness about the state of our oceans, and though teaching people to love sailing, we are teaching them to love the ocean and to care for it. By teaching students about the history and future of sailing, StuySails will inform people about how sailing has influenced our world today and how it continues to change the world through green shipping practices and more.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leaders will be appointed through an application process given by the current president and vice president. If there is more than one applicant then the president and vice president will choose the applicant that they think will best uphold the goals of StuySails.
If a member of the club wishes for a a leader to be impeached they must provide a valid reason, inform the members of the club and a vote will be held. If more than half of the club votes against the leader, the leader will be impeached. Transfer of leadership between school years will occur before the current president graduates. If there is a vice president who will graduate after the president then they will become the next president and will fill their former role through the appointment process already outlined. If it is the vice president who is graduating before the president, then the club will appoint a leader. Members are expected to follow instructions and obey safety protocols when they are on the water, and if they do not, may be removed from the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuySails is unique because there is no other club devoted to sailing at Stuyvesant. It is also unique because it is one of very few clubs that are related to watersports and because it is one of almost no clubs that is primarily targeted to people who have no prior knowledge of an activity. On top of this, StuySails is unique because the ultimate goal of the club is to create a team of successful dinghy sailors.

