Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Cubing Club's goal is to create a community within Stuyvesant for people who are interested in solving and learning about Rubik's cubes

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
General meetings will take place on Thursday every 2 weeks, with varying meetings depending on the availability of members. Specific meetings may be scheduled for various aspects of cubing.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
This activity serves two main purposes, first, it will be a place for those who are inexperienced in Rubik's cube solving yet interested to learn the process and techniques behind solving the Rubik's cube. Also, the club will serve as a place for those who are experienced at Rubik's cubes to become even better at their skills and also compete in a friendly manner against others who are also interested in solving Rubik's cubes. A Rubik's cube helps thinking abilities develop especially in teens. They develop hand-eye coordination as well as logic-solving abilities which are important skills not just in games but also in the real world. Also, learning how to solve a Rubik's cube is a process that requires patience as well as listening abilities which are instilled into those who learn how to solve Rubik's cube. Rubik's cubes may just be a toy however they can instill many useful skills into the lives of our members.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will benefit the Stuyvesant community because it provides a community for those who are interested in Rubik's cubes to come together. Stuyvesant is a very large school with thousands of members, so the fact of the matter is it's often hard for those who are interested in very niche subjects and projects to find communities that truly fit them and welcome them. However, if this club is accepted Rubik's cube solving will be much more accessible for those who are interested and Stuyvesant can have a proud community of cubers who are connected together in camaraderie associated with learning and practicing solving Rubik's cubes. Also, this club will serve as a place for us to hold speed-cubing competitions among students who are quite skilled. Those who are interested in solving Rubik's cubes but do not know all of the skills behind the process will be taught by our Rubik's mentors, and be able to practice among those who are at the same skill level as them. This will allow members of the Stuyvesant community to develop a new, popular skill that also strengthens their abilities in different skills for real-world application. Anyone who is interested can go from someone who is completely inexperienced to someone who is a master at solving Rubik's cubes quickly.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions are president and co-president, and there will also be Rubik's mentors. The president serves as the leader of the club who organizes meetings as well as leads the conversation and competitions about Rubik's cubes. The co-president serves as a support for the president as well as the manager of outreach in order to further grow the Rubik's Cube community and find those who are interested. Rubik's mentors are those who are quite skilled at the ability to solve Rubik's cubes and would like to use their skills to teach those who are interested in the topic but do not know how to solve it or would like to improve. The new president, co-president, and Rubik's members will be picked through Google forms sent at the end of the year, and then applicants will be screened by the current president and co-president. If a leader is abusing the rules of the club the president and co-president will have a conversation with the leader and see how they can fix the situation. If this is not possible they will be removed from the club and not allowed to participate in our activities and competitions unless they prove that they can truly lead for the better.

What makes this activity unique?:
Our organization is unique because it also teaches those who are interested in Rubik's cubes but not skilled enough to learn how to solve them. Our focus is not just speed-cubing but also learning the entire process behind the solving, which will make this unique as it is a club you can join with 0 experience and still be able to make the absolute most of it. It is also unique because are planning to have large-scale multi-week tournaments which will not just be very fun for members but also an interesting thing to keep Stuyvesant students engaged in the skill.

