Mission Statement:
StuyPy is a beginner-friendly club for learning how to solve problems and innovate using Python.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
If there are events that impede with many of our schedules, we may hold a remote meeting or cancel the meeting, but we will usually meet on Thursdays

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyPy will unite Stuyvesant students in learning how to program using Python, to problem-solve, and build projects. StuyPy aims to introduce members to Python and provide them with a strong foundation in the field of computer science from the ground up. StuyPy is an extremely welcoming and inclusive club, where everyone can join, regardless of experience level. Members are not required to attend meetings, but frequent attendance, participation, and effort are recommended. StuyPy will introduce members to fundamental computer science principles, which will transition into the Python programming language. The club will employ a blend of presentation and lecture-based learning, and interactive hands-on project-based learning, catering to different learning styles. After everyone understands the fundamentals, there will be themes to introduce members to various fields of practical applications of Python. Through themes, members can discover their interests and understand the inner workings of a particular application. Regarding outreach and events, StuyPy will reach out and work with other clubs and organizations to provide members with more ways to further explore their interests. StuyPy will also plan a few events throughout the year, such as an end-of-the-year hackathon, where participants can demonstrate their newly acquired skills from the club. Overall, StuyPy is a no-cut club that provides a casual environment for members to learn more about Python, create fun projects, and meet new people.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Through the StuyPy club, members will learn, bond, and have fun. A lot of people are interested in learning how to code but are unsure how to start or find coding daunting. At StuyPy, they will learn from the ground up. People who had never looked at code before in their lives can become experienced programmers in no time. Projects that we will be learning how to create include creating bots, graph data, creating functional applications, scraping data off the internet, and more. StuyPy members will also learn how to innovate, solving problems that are important to them with the power of coding. By learning how to code, they also learn essential problem-solving and communication skills, as well as creativity and persistence. Since Stuyvesant is a specialized high school with a heavy emphasis placed on STEM, many people know how to code in this school, and by learning how to code, StuyPy members will be able to meet new friends, bond, and have fun. In addition, members that are interested in coding beyond StuyPy can join other related clubs and classes. In essence, StuyPy will provide an opportunity for Stuyvesant Students to learn, bond, and have fun. They will be able to problem-solve, innovate, and communicate.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There will be 2-3 (co)presidents, who lead the club, oversee club operations, maintain contact with the school administration and the rest of the council, and create and teach lessons. One of the presidents will charter the club via StuyActivities, but all presidents will receive administrative privileges in StuyActivities, the Discord, and the club in general. The presidents hold leadership applications in the summer before the fall semester. The presidents are responsible for managing the day-to-day activities of the club, as well as communicate with our external organizations. The Teacher-Assistant department is responsible for assisting with the creation of lessons as well as helping members who are confused or stuck while the presidents are teaching the main lesson. The PR department is responsible for graphic design as well as managing our social media platforms. The outreach department is responsible for reaching out to many potential sponsors for prizes and partnerships when we inevitably hold our hackathon event in April. This ""cabinet"" can do the following if the supermajority of the cabinet agrees: - Impeach presidents in question for valid reasons. Members are expected to obey the rules of the club and join at least one meeting a month. Everyone is expected to follow the rules of StuyActivities and the rules listed in our discord server

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyPy is dedicated to teaching programming on an extremely beginner-friendly and basic level. Members will learn by doing: using projects as a way to immerse themselves in various topics and to overall have a better understanding of the Python language. Furthermore, StuyPy has a drive to only teach Python, which focuses members’ attention on one specific language to minimize confusion and to learn the full extent of Python. Lastly, StuyPy will also host events to keep the club interesting and fun, such as an end-of-the-year hackathon or guest speakers.

