Mission Statement:
StuyBolly strives to immerse students into the world of Bollywood through dance.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Wednesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the school year depending on your choice of commitment. We meet at least once a month but for those taking part in performances, practices can vary from once a week to almost every day as show date nears.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of our club is to foster a community of Stuyvesant students who are passionate about Bollywood dance and also those who are interested in learning more about Bollywood culture. Through our club, students will learn how to dance confidently in front of large audiences and also gain a sense of comfort alongside their fellow members. General members are expected to attend our meetings and rehearsals but also perform at our various productions throughout the school year. Additionally, our club is an excellent way for students to network with their peers and with other students (even students from other Bollywood dance programs) to create an even larger community where individuals can express themselves through Bollywood dance. This can be done in the build-up to our three yearly shows which run from November to January (StuySquad), February to March (SING!), and May to June (Stuyvesant Outlet Showcase). As always, we strive to push students to be the most talented and skilled dancers that they can be so that when it comes to these shows, students will not only have learned more about their peers and themselves, but they can be proud of their hard work.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
With very few clubs at Stuyvesant that represent the South Asian community, StuyBolly offers students a safe haven where students can immerse themselves in a culture that is often underrepresented. Students who are passionate about Bollywood dance are able to join our club and let loose, whether it be their emotions or their passion to dance. Meanwhile, students who are new to Bollywood dance can learn more about it and gain the confidence to continue participating in dance. We always intend to put on spectacular performances but that is only possible through a work ethic that requires constant communication and effort, whether it be through attending practice or practicing on their own. This work ethic will ultimately pay off every time we have a show and students will recognize that their hard work truly creates positive results. Yet, amidst the swirling colors and beats, there's a deeper magic that StuyBolly conjures. It's the power of community, strong and unwavering. Beyond the spins and twirls, it's the friendships forged that give StuyBolly a bigger purpose. Within this community, learning isn't just about dance; it's about understanding, acceptance, and shared experiences. Despite practices sometimes being challenging, they are filled with support due to the collective determination and the infectious spirit that every member brings to the Stuyvesant.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Appointment for all leadership positions will be done through an application process that is overseen by the presidents of the club. Once applications are submitted by possible candidates, a unanimous decision will be made by the presidents of the club to appoint people to their board positions. If a board member fails to complete their tasks and fails to respond to the expectations of others in the board, they will be given a warning on the first and second offenses, but will be removed from the board on their third offense. Board members are expected to be active on Facebook and play an active role in the Bollywood productions at the school and outside of school. All board members are expected to keep themselves updated with everything happening in the club and are expected to set a good example for members of the club. They are to be prepared for every meeting, and be able to communicate effectively if a task can not be completed in time or something occurs differently from expected. The roles that we will be appointing are Vice President (President-in- Training), Social Media Manager, Finance Manager, and Events Coordinator. Vice President(s) will be trained over the course of the year in order to become president(s) in the following year. The Social Media Manager will be in charge of the Stuyvesant Bollywood Dancing Team’s instagram account, @stuybolly and are expected to post on the Instagram account in order to raise awareness about events hosted in the club and keep followers updated on upcoming productions and rehearsals. The Finance Manager will be in charge of obtaining costumes for our productions in and out of school. Finally, the events coordinator will be responsible for keeping members engaged through events that this club will be participating in, inside and outside of school.

What makes this activity unique?:
We are the ONLY club at Stuyvesant about Bollywood dance. Have you seen kids in colorful costumes, heard loud foreign (mostly Hindi) music in the halls, or seen people barefoot on stage!? Well, it was probably StuyBolly! Whether you have no experience dancing, don’t even know what Bollywood is, or are an experienced dancer, we would love to have you join. This club immerses members into South Asian culture through dance. We host dancing workshops, practices, and we perform at various shows (ex. SOS and StuySquad).

