Mission Statement:
Stuy Jewelry welcomes members to express their creativity and help others through creating jewelry and volunteering.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, but we meet at least once a month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Have you always wanted to learn how to make jewelry or exchange handmade friendship bracelets? Do you want to volunteer while also expanding your arts and crafts skills? Stuy Jewelry’s purpose is to teach members how to make jewelry and encourage them to use their creativity to its fullest potential. This club's goal is to create a positive working space that allows our members to share their interest in jewelry and teach each other what they know about jewelry. This club requires no experience so members can explore new arts and crafts! Stuy Jewelry is meant to be a welcoming and safe place, perfect for making friends and being sociable. This club helps our members flourish and expand their artistic skills so our members have time to de-stress and loosen up but still provide great opportunities such as volunteering. Meetings are hosted where members can create jewelry for themselves and for the club's fundraisers. Members also volunteer to create jewelry with children as a form of support and care.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will benefit the Stuyvesant community by allowing members to expand their artistic capabilities through creating and learning about jewelry. Making jewelry is perfect for self-expression and communicating thoughts and feelings. Members are able to volunteer as mentioned earlier and create jewelry for charity to support and help others. Stuy Jewelry also helps its members cope with stress and feel more refreshed since arts help soothe the mind. Arts and crafts have many benefits and can help improve productivity, organization, planning and patience. While de-stressing during club meetings, members can also get to know each other and create bright and encouraging friendships. Since all members will have common interests, they will have the opportunity to teach each other what they know about jewelry and share a common goal. The club can also create jewelry based on upcoming events or holidays (Valentine’s day, etc.). This can be a great way for members to create nice and thoughtful gifts for their friends and also have fun making the presents. An important aspect of the club is the community and supplies that we provide the members with. Member will be provided with all necessary materials and handouts that assist through explaining how to make different friendship bracelets or jewelry. The leaders will also be there to explain and teach how to make a bracelet/necklace if a member wants to learn a specific technique.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leaders of the club organize and decide when the club meets. They lead meetings and update the club through emails and announcements on Stuy Activities. There are different leadership positions such as the social media manager, who handles and runs the social media accounts or the treasurer, who handles funding and costs of the materials. Leaders work together to provide the members with materials and instructions on how to create the different types of jewelry. New leaders need to be approved by past/current leaders. Leaders should show a strong interest in creating jewelry and supporting the members of the group and also should be able to lead people and teach them. Leaders are expected to keep up with the clubs activities and communicate well with each other. If still after continuous warnings a leader does not follow these protocols, the other leaders will have to politely let them know of their removal from the club leadership.

What makes this activity unique?:
Making jewelry is a special way to socialize with others and build art skills. This organization not only teaches how to make jewelry but also provides opportunities to help others such as volunteering and charity. Our club will be a fun and interesting way to make new friends and learn new arts and crafts. We hope to create a great and welcoming environment for our members where they can utilize their creativity and expand their interests in jewelry but also de-stress and express their thoughts and feelings.

