Mission Statement:
The mission of the Stuy Rhythm Games Club is to build a friendly community of people that play or are interested in rhythm games.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will try to hold meets every Friday, given that enough people are interested. We can also try to schedule for other days, including the weekends. All meets will be announced in our discord server.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Despite their large player base, rhythm games aren’t seen as often on Twitch and Youtube. We hope to garner more interest in rhythm games by establishing this club. For those who know about rhythm games, this is a place to bring together people with similar interests. Here, people of various skill levels can enjoy playing rhythm games together. Our members play rhythm games like osu!, Muse Dash, Cytus, Dynamix, and many more. We try to foster a competitive and cooperative space where we can have fun and improve our skill levels together. Our club can be a place to unwind in a place as stressful as Stuy. Playing rhythm games exposes people to new genres of music and improves several hand-eye coordination skills. Whether you are a casual or hardcore player, we hope that the members of this club will be able to appreciate rhythm games more, improve their skills, and have a good time.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Playing rhythm games involves several skills, like being able to react fast or having good eye-to-hand coordination, similar to a sport. Rhythm games will help to improve those skills and train people in rhythmic skills. Our club, not unlike other gaming clubs at Stuy, will promote a safe space where people will enjoy gaming together. People can play rhythm games alone, but playing together allows people to build friendships they would not have otherwise developed. Furthermore, because rhythm games require a certain amount of skill, experienced players can help new players ease into the game. Often, people are discouraged because the game seems too hard. However, new players can strive to be as proficient as their more skilled peers. By bringing together players of all skill levels, the Stuy Rhythm Games club is helping build a growth mindset for everybody. However, skill isn’t the only thing to be shared within the club. There are tons of rhythm games out there that are not necessarily mainstream. By being in a community of people who play rhythm games, one can receive more exposure to games they could like, regardless of their popularity. Rhythm games might be a little niche, but we hope to use that to our advantage and form a tight-knit community.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
We do not have one specific president or vice-president; we have a council of leaders. To get a position of power in the Stuy Rhythm Games Club, one should be active within the community. They should demonstrate that they can teach new players how to play rhythm games. A leader in a club like this is not just someone who can make decisions: they also should be someone who can guide others. The community can bring such an individual to the attention of the current leadership. From there, the people in charge may decide the fate of the individual. However, there may be too many people in power at one time. If this is the case, the current leadership may put the individual on a “waitlist.” If one leader becomes inactive, the other leaders will discuss the fate of the said person. A majority agreement among the other leaders will result in the demotion of that leader. If there is a tie, we can have a vote within the server if we should demote the inactive one. Leadership comes with responsibility, and they are not showing the attributes of a leader if they are not actively contributing. The waitlist can be referred to when choosing a replacement for the demoted leader.

What makes this activity unique?:
We have noticed that although there has been a decent amount of people interested in rhythm games, no club exists for it. Rhythm games are unique in that they can seem easy on the surface but have an almost nonexistent skill ceiling. They offer a different style of gaming that doesn't always show up in the mainstream. Shooters are popular, but they can get stale pretty fast. Rhythm games provide a fresh take on gaming if people are tired of other competitive video games. For many of our members, rhythm games have not simply become an alternative to their most played titles, but their primary source of gaming, which speaks to how much potential these games carry. We hope to provide people with the opportunity to try these games and fall in love with them in the same way we have.

