Mission Statement:
The mission of Biology Society is to create an explorative, collaborative environment to teach others in meaningful and creative ways.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will send out a poll to members to determine the particular meeting days and schedule. But, we aim for each department to have a weekly or bimonthly meeting.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
At the Biology Society, members will delve into biology, contribute to research, and more importantly… guide aspiring scientists. Whether organizing events for elementary schoolers or updating our website with research projects, lab tutorials, or an introduction to a biology field, we aim to support the next generation of young biologists. To do so, our club will consist of 2 main departments: the General and Research department. The general department — the bulk of the club — is responsible for exposing the extraordinary world of biology. With our website, the department can create opportunities, coordinate partnerships, and introduce information portals. For instance, some opportunities may include tutoring sessions or classes on biology for younger students. Moreover, the department can spearhead zoom events to introduce a particular concept or phenomena in biology. Students can teach the participants and incorporate various activities (kahoots, simulations, or interactives) to engage the participants. Secondly, the department will coordinate partnerships with other institutions — such as volunteering at a NYC middle school or public library to further education. Finally, the department is responsible for creating information portals. These are pages on the website where we delve into a particular topic in biology. For example,  the Fields Portal will present information on the various biological fields — whether that’s microbiology or neurobiology — to guide interested students! The Research Portal will introduce the scientific method, address the importance of research, and post student-made videos, tutorials, or information on lab skills. One last example: the Bio Basics Portal will have an introduction to biology page for 2nd through 8th graders. Ultimately, students can navigate the website and select any page (Ex: 3rd Grade Biology) to find information, upcoming events, and more! The Biology Society hopes to create a strong organization built by passionate Stuy kids. But, there’s one last part of the club: the research department. Being a scientist means engaging in the scientific method, nurturing one’s curiosity, and collaborating with others. So, the Biology Society will host a collective annual research project. The department will also host 1-2 workshops every month (the frequency based on members' needs) to practice lab techniques. At the end of the year, the department will create a final project – with an abstract, introduction, methods, results, and discussion section – similar to a scientific article. The article will be posted on the website to demonstrate an example of student research.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Biology Society will benefit Stuyvesant through guiding aspiring scientists and building a supportive environment uniting Stuy’s science lovers. The club’s departments allow members to gain valuable experience and teach others about every piece of the massive jigsaw puzzle that biology is. Firstly, the General department allows members to collectively enhance their knowledge of biology, while also guiding a community of students to learn more about this field through our website. Such collaboration fosters not only a strong scientific community within Stuyvesant, but a strong scientific community all over the country. Now, individuals can learn biology through our accessible videos, simulations, fun activities, and informative sessions. Secondly, our Research department largely benefits the Stuyvesant community in a similar way. Stuy students can do collective research to expand both our website and the knowledge of individuals around the US. By gaining basic skills from exploring the scientific method, members can experience what it’s like to be a scientist in the real world. Here, every individual has the chance to pitch in and drive the pulse of science. To summarize, the Biology Society creates an atmosphere where everyone can constantly pursue science in meaningful ways. Whether engaging in research, teaching fellow students, or just helping the scientific community, the club offers many opportunities for Stuy students. Furthermore, the Biology Society provides leadership opportunities. Student leaders can select a department they are interested in and spearhead its meetings. Members themselves can participate in sharing work, adding to the website, analyzing data, and teaching peers. This allows everyone to incorporate both their interests and their leadership skills. But, what truly makes Biology Society special is the teamwork and collaboration it facilitates. Afterall, the club’s activities are not meant to be done independently. From an experiment with fellow table-mates to tutoring sessions with younger students, science is best learned when done collectively. At Biology Society, peers and students can commit to biology together, share ideas, and bond.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Biology Society will appoint leaders for our General and Research Projects Department. To determine the leadership team, the club will send out an application via google form and conduct interviews if there are more applicants than expected. If a leader has graduated, we will send a new application for that role. If the founders are graduating, we will choose from lower leadership. Furthermore, leaders can be impeached if they fail to complete their responsibilities more than 3 times. After the 1st and 2nd strike, the co-presidents will discuss with the leader their concerns and remind them to stay on task. However, if the leader fails to fulfill their responsibilities for a 3rd time, they will be impeached. Below are the leader’s responsibilities. (1) General Department Head: There will most likely be 2 heads responsible for overseeing this department. They must guide members into spearheading opportunities, forming partnerships, and creating information portals. They must ensure the website is organized, contains sufficient information, and functioning. Knowledge in programming is encouraged but not required. Finally, the head must ensure meetings occur regularly (every week) and adequate members attend. (2) Research Department Head: The research department head is responsible for coordinating the processes to create a final research project. This includes organizing the brainstorming process, obtaining the proper materials, and making sure the experimentation process is running smoothly. They must oversee the writing process, where members put the research into a final article (this requires leaders to be familiar with the scientific method). Throughout the process, they must ensure every member has a role for the final product. In addition to leadership expectations, we expect members to be active. Everyone has a part in the Biology Society. So, we expect members to be committed, attend at least 75 percent of the meetings, and complete their tasks.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Biology Society allows members to delve into what encompasses biological exploration and allows others to have that same opportunity. As members teach others, they explore the foundations of biology, the different fields it contains, lab techniques, and more! Afterall, teaching is one of the best ways of learning. Moreover, the club encourages a holistic approach to biology. While some biology-centered clubs choose to work within only certain topics, at the Biology Society, members constantly explore new topics. This allows them to thoroughly dive into biology, learn about their interests, and identify what fascinates them. The Biology Society is also the only club at Stuy that offers the opportunity for a collective research project, which is vital to contribute to science. Other biology-centered clubs simply focus on small experiments or projects. But beyond research, members have the amazing opportunity to form meaningful connections with youth, spread their passion, and inspire others. Our organization, loaded with various activities, events, and information, acts as a hub for biology learning. The Biology Society’s upcoming website, accessible to students all over the US, truly differentiates this organization from other clubs, which are limited to Stuy. Ultimately, no other club allows members to both explore their interests/improve their skills AND simultaneously share what they learned at a large scale. The Biology Society guides every student, regardless of their scientific background, their age, or even where they live. And it teaches the members who help create it to take initiative, breach the limitations, and make meaningful impacts.

