Mission Statement:
To promote science fiction/fantasy writing and art within the Stuyvesant community by producing one of the school's official literary magazines.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the school year.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Antares aims to bring together the many talented science fiction/fantasy artists and writers within Stuyvesant so that they can discuss and help develop each others' work, which culminates in the production of Antares magazine in the spring. Antares is also an attractive publication for those interested in magazine promotion and layout, and there are many different ways to become involved in the publication. Members are expected to attend meetings regularly and contribute to the magazine either through writing, editing, drawing, layout/design, or promotion. In producing the magazine, we aim to showcase the creativity of the Stuyvesant community both within the school and in the community through outreach efforts with bookstores such as the local Barnes and Noble. Aside from the publication, Antares has also become a club for science fiction/fantasy enthusiasts and our meetings are often where lively book or movie discussions take place. Often, members work on their creative work during meetings or discuss ideas.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Antares can serve as an important creative outlet for Stuyvesant students who like to read, write, or draw while giving them valuable experience in producing a publication. In a demanding school such as Stuyvesant, it is vitally important that students find enjoyable ways of taking a break from academics and exercising their imaginations, and Antares offers the chance to do exactly that while producing a literary work of which the school can be proud. In addition, students who are interested in creative or business fields can gain valuable experience in a multitude of ways by becoming involved in the magazine. We have opportunities to gain experience in selling advertising, promoting the magazine and the club, editing, writing, illustrating, and developing other art forms. Often, members will develop creative ideas within the club, and in the past, several members have entered their work in the Scholastic art and writing competition and have won awards for their work. Also, we hope to promote Stuyvesant within the local community through our club. In 2018, our club was invited to participate in activities (such as a book signing) with the local Barnes and Noble, and we hope to continue our relationship with Barnes and Noble this year. We believe that our club's activities are a positive reflection of the Stuyvesant student body and their creativity.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Each year's leaders are responsible for appointing the next year's leaders. Leaders are chosen based on demonstrated level of commitment to the magazine (through writing, drawing, editing, or other business-related activities) and club and leadership qualities, such as the ability to listen and give constructive feedback, run meetings and events, and get things done. Leaders meet and discuss candidates and take a vote before asking various members to fill roles. We have a "three strikes" system where every time a member of the Board abuses their position for non-club-related purposes, they receive a strike. The Board will vote on whether or not the Board member gets a strike. After three strikes, the Board member will be removed from the Board, regardless of their position. Members are expected to understand that final editorial decisions regarding which stories and drawings will appear in the magazine rest with the magazine’s Editor-in-Chief and Executive Editor. In return, the magazine’s editors strive to be inclusive and include as many pieces in the magazine as they reasonably can, given space and cost restraints.

What makes this activity unique?:
Antares is a special high school publication in that it focuses exclusively on science fiction and fantasy. Our magazine has also won multiple awards in recent years, including a Columbia Press Association Gold Medal and the National Scholastic Press Association First Class Award, and we hope to win more in the future. In addition, past writers have won Scholastic Art and Writing medals for their individual work. Although our main focus is producing the magazine, we also see ourselves as a community of science fiction/fantasy fans, and in the past year, we began new efforts to promote our club through social media and the production and sale of attractive hoodies that featured one of our member’s artwork.

