Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Music Outreach League aims to use our musical abilities and talents to bring joy to those around us.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, but we plan to meet a few times a month to check up on each other, and as we get closer to a performance, we would meet more often in order to review and run through what we have planned. We have stated that our meetings will be held on Thursdays, but this can be adjusted to meet the needs and preferences of the members.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have all felt a sense of isolation from the world and from those around us. However, music can serve as a method to help connect people. Whether it is through Zoom or in person, music can provide companionship to those who are isolated or feeling lonely. In addition, music also has a variety of benefits on a human being whether it is psychological or medical. For instance, Alzheimer's, which is an extremely prevalent disease among the elderly, can be relieved through music. We hope to use Stuyvesant’s wide range of talents and passions for music to bring smiles and comfort to the elderly and those in need. With our club, we would arrange concerts at nursing homes and senior centers with the different pieces of music the members of our club have been working on. We also aim to form duets, trios, quartets, and more to prepare music solely dedicated to the season and time of the recitals (i.e. Halloween, Winter Holidays, Summer, etc.). Through having these performances, members will receive volunteer/service hours.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
SMOL will facilitate an environment where students who share a common interest in music may gather for the benefit of the less privileged. Members will work together and learn from each other and their experiences. As it is commonly known, the students of Stuyvesant are extremely talented. However, many of them are not given the opportunities to present and share these talents with others or are too nervous to. Our club would provide such students and any with the interest of performing the opportunity to perform and bring joy to those around them. We would also help those who struggle to put themselves out there, get used to and learn how to deal with nerves and worries. Simultaneously, this will bring together students with similar interests but different musical skills to learn to work and perform together (duets, trios, quartets, and more), exposing them to different areas of music. While expanding students’ experiences and skills, we would also provide an environment where fellow musicians can receive feedback and practice performing. With these performances, students will also receive service hours for doing something that they enjoy. Ultimately, SMOL will provide an environment of positive feedback, inquiry, and community for those who wish to expand and share their talents and use them for others’ benefits.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leaders will be chosen based on their demonstrated commitment to the club, individual musical growth, and how often they contribute to and participate in outreach events. Throughout the years, those interested in leadership positions will be given applications to complete. Regarding members, it is not super crucial that members attend every performance, but if one signs up to perform at a given event, then they must show up to rehearsals and meetings prior to the performance. Though members certainly do not have to sign up for every performance, it is important to take advantage of as many performance opportunities as one can—especially as past attendance is also a factor in establishing leadership positions. However, if one is met with an unexpected responsibility, then an excuse form may be filled out, and the member may instead provide proof of preparedness for the performance. There is a limit of three excuses per year.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant students will be given the opportunity to organize and perform in outreach concerts, benefitting not only Stuyvesant but the communities that surround it. Participation in the club allows students to further their own musical skills through collaboration and performance, at the same time actively aiding the elderly and others in need. Talent and passion for music that often goes unheard throughout the school day can be shared and appreciated among like-minded colleagues--this is vital to personal and musical fulfillment within individuals, and can also be put to good use and have benefits beyond students and groups within Stuyvesant.

