Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Food Security Club’s mission is to take unused food from the cafeteria and distribute it around the city to people in need.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year depending on member and food availability, but we will try to meet at least once every two weeks.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Food Security Club takes unused food from the school cafeteria, local delis, and grocery stores and distributes it around the city to people in need. Stuy FSC utilizes community fridges, city pantries, and soup kitchens in various boroughs to reduce food waste and provide food for the hungry. Members of Stuy FSC will sign up for days when they are available to deliver a portion of the food to a location in the borough they live in. Members are expected to commit to the day that they have signed up for, but there is no minimum number of days members are required to sign up for. Stuy FSC will also provide opportunities to volunteer at local food pantries and soup kitchens on weekends for students who are interested in further helping their communities, gaining volunteer hours, and obtaining new experiences. The establishment of Stuy FSC is especially imperative during these uncertain times as many members in our community are facing economic and social challenges. Join us in this food security initiative to make a better New York and Stuyvesant community.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant Food Security Club provides an opportunity for students that are motivated to improve the Stuyvesant community and New York City. New York City public schools largely contribute to the rapidly growing food waste issue of NYC. For years, the Stuyvesant school cafeteria has been obligated under DOE regulations to throw out all food items that have left the kitchen on a daily basis. These food items include perfectly fresh apples, oranges, pears, carrots, milk, and cereal. Aside from the canned foods that food pantries offer, our club believes that providing a healthier and more nutritious alternative would be more beneficial to our local communities, while at the same time encouraging a more sustainable school community. Stuy FSC also provides Stuyvesant students with the great opportunity to gain volunteer experience and hours to prepare them for their college application. Not only will students gain personal positive experiences but they will also, at the same time, be contributing to a greater and greener community. Especially in these covid times, many more people are struggling financially, and Stuy FSC believes that Stuyvesnat students can help the whole of New York City. Through our system, our beneficial food security program will allow for the distribution of fresh foods throughout the boroughs of Bronx, Brooklyn, Staten Island, Queens, and Manhattan.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The positions for Stuyvesant Food Security Club include Co- presidents, Chief of Operations, Chief Financial Officer, Manhattan Director, Queens Director, Bronx Director, Brooklyn Director, and Staten Island Director. Club Presidents will be appointed by the past Club Presidents, before they graduate. Then, the Club Presidents will decide who will take over lower leadership positions based on applicants who show eager participation and commitment. Members are expected to remain active in the club throughout the school year, and those in leadership positions who do not show commitment to the club throughout the year will be removed from their positions by club presidents. In the case that any leadership position holder does not act responsibly and neglects their duties, then the members of the club can write a written complaint to the club presidents and call for a meeting to discuss the member in question. All decisions pertaining to that member will result on a case by case basis through the meeting.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Stuyvesant Food Security Club is unique from other community service groups in that not only does it provide resources to those in need, but it also encourages a more sustainable community. Not only will the amount of food waste be reduced in our school, but those in need will have more access to healthier, more nutritious foods. Stuy FSC also provides club members a convenient way to help their community through our effective food security distribution system.

