Mission Statement:
Stuy MOH's mission is to raise money and use student knowledge and resources to help develop the non-profit organization: Miracle of Help.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will vary due to final exams/AP exams, but we will meet once a week every Thursday after school. Meetings will last until 5:30

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy MOH will meet weekly to discuss the plans and goals of the club, as well as the individual projects its members will be working on. The club will be organized departmentally instead of hierarchically, something different from the way many other clubs are organized at Stuyvesant. This means that its members will be working towards their strengths, and using their specific knowledge to help out exactly where they would work the best. In addition to the club-wide goals we have, there will be separate projects where a small team of people with higher expertise can work directly with Maricle of Help to help with the optimization and execution of their projects. This means that to do work for the club you will be able to contribute in whatever way you find works for you the best. Stuy MOH will be a club where people who want to commit to a non-profit organization and accomplish high-level work will be able to, but those who don't have as much time will also be able to contribute to a meaningful cause.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity can help to benefit the Stuyvesant community by providing its members with a meaningful and proactive way to get community service hours while utilizing their specific knowledge and resources to create positive change in the world. By creating this activity, we're opening the gates for Stuyvesant students with higher technical skills, leadership aspirations, and people who desire to improve living conditions for people suffering in pooper counties by working in collaboration with a Non-profit organization known as Miracle of Help. Miracle of Help's mission is to help develop communities and improve the living conditions for people who live in the remote regions of Sierre Lione, Africa. A driving appeal to collaborate with this organization is its size. Miracle of Help is a smaller organization, meaning that, unlike larger organizations that focus on community service, not only will your work be recognized much more significantly, but also you can create real change in your field of expertise, as they're in a situation where all work is appreciated. Lastly, as I stated previously, by contributing to this organization within the club, Miracle of Help will count hours put towards the efforts of the club as community service, meaning that instead of doing one-off events or volunteering for your hours, you can work in a meaningful way that caters to your strengths.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions for Stuy MOH are based on proactivity. Leadership positions are assigned based on those who can accomplish the most for the club, and who show leadership in how they problem-solve, complete tasks, and independently take action. There will be no leadership positions based around seniority or a top-down trickle of roles as members graduate. Additionally, new roles will be created as the club expands, and as people show their capability, they will be allowed to take over more internal management. The club's goal is to create a space for people with skills to be able to utilize them professionally, in collaboration with a nonprofit organization, meaning that if someone is particularly skilled or proactive, they will be able to rise to a position where they would be able to work most effectively and gain boosts to their college application. In addition to leadership positions in the club, letters of recommendation from the head of the organization will also be written to accomplished members.

What makes this activity unique?:
The most unique attribute of this club is Miracle of Help as an organization. It is a smaller non-profit organization that uses its resources in creative and intelligent ways. Its founder, Risa Gold MD trusts the capabilities of Stuyvesant students, meaning that much of the work that the club will be working to complete will be in line with the skills and strengths of its members. Not only will this be an opportunity for people who have honed their particular skills to demonstrate their capabilities, but also it demonstrate accomplishments for the public good, which is an excellent demonstration for college applications.

