Mission Statement:
StuyModern aims to share a love for modern dance and build technique through expressive choreo workshops and technique building sessions.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Wednesday, Friday, Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will hold one meeting per week, on a varying day each week depending on availability. Each week will alternate between choreo workshops and conditioning/technique building. Members may choose which meetings they would like to attend based on their preferences.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyModern will hold meetings once a week, alternating between choreo workshops and technique sessions. Each meeting will be announced on our Instagram account and in our Facebook group by Sunday night, and members will inform a club leader whether they plan on attending that meeting or not so the leaders can gauge interest. Club leaders will make choreography in rotation and teach members their choreography during choreo workshops. Videos of the choreos will be posted after the meetings on Instagram and Facebook for members who were not able to attend or want to refer back to it. Videos of members performing the choreo at the end of the meeting will also be made available to those who would like to use them to improve later on. Conditioning sessions, consisting of core workouts, stretching, and more, will help members build technique and muscle strengths that will be necessary for the choreo learned on workshop days.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyModern will provide an outlet for students who want to let loose after a long school day and participate in an expressive, physical activity in a safe and supportive environment. After sitting at desks all day in class, members can creatively move to music and meet other people who enjoy similar interests including dance and music. This would serve as a way to get exercise through a form of art as many people do not enjoy traditional exercises. This would also help students gain confidence with their body awareness and self expression through the skills we build. Members would learn to use different types of arm movements and facial expressions to connect to their audience while keeping a strong and precise lower body. Modern dance also helps improve posture, which illuminates long term benefits for Stuy students who tend to slouch while studying. Many people believe that dance is not as physically strenuous as other forms of exercise including sports, but dance actually requires many years of training to gain control over and achieve full motion in your body. StuyModern welcomes students of all grades to create a diverse community of both underclassmen and upperclassmen who can work together and help each other out.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions would be appointed by current leaders via an application process. Leaders must have an adequate amount of both dance experience and dance knowledge. For the application, they are required to answer short response questions and submit a dance video of their own choreo. Current leaders would then evaluate everyone’s application, and choose who we believe are the best candidates for the leadership position(s). Choreographers are required to submit a video of their own choreo, but as for our other positions, it may vary, depending on what the position is (some dance experience is still required for every position - for example, positions include choreographers, leaders in training, social media manager, etc.) Lastly, the transfer of leadership would occur at the end of every year if needed (for example, if a leader leaves or graduates). However, if we have leaders in training (underclassmen), they will automatically become leaders for the upcoming year.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuyModern aims to create a positive and supportive environment for students to take their first steps into the world of modern dance or hone their existing techniques. Regardless of experience level, members can learn choreography from leaders who would like to practice their craft and express themselves by creating choreography and teaching. Not only can members learn steps to a dance, but members can also learn to express themselves comfortably using staples of modern dance. Many dance groups at Stuy only teach choreo and do not take the time to teach technique, so we aim to build these fundamentals alongside creativity by alternating between choreo workshops and technique building sessions.

