Mission Statement:
Stuy Philosophy is a club dedicated to providing a scholarly and intellectual space for all manner of philosophical discussion.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
This activity usually meets on Mondays but also may meet more on Fridays, depending on availability of members or other outstanding conditions like school being closed on one of the days.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
This club is meant as a seminar/open discussion about every and any philosophical topic that one can think of. Members will engage in thoughtful discussion about numerous philosophical frameworks and thought experiments with the goal of furthering one's understanding of the world at large. Meetings usually have a central topic, whether it be on the meaning of freedom or a single philosopher's work, but are also open to all topics and ideas. This club examines ideas through more than one lens and perspective with the goal of getting a more complete understanding of any dilemma. Members will also analyze and examine the impacts of philosophy on modern day politics, education, and science, to better connect the general abstract principles with concrete reality. Leaders may be contacted via email or the community Discord server for additional materials and essays, and members are encouraged to share any interesting or thought provoking essays, books, or other media which they come across.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This club will create and facilitate a proper space to engage in intellectual discussion and general discourse with like minded individuals. Philosophy is often under-represented in high schools and rarely studied, and this club seeks to change that by uniting budding philosophers together and giving them a space to thrive. This club will study philosophers of antiquity and modern times alike, examining them critically and tracing their impacts throughout history. Studying philosophy rigorously allows for an enhanced understanding of the workings of the world and provides a benefit in all fields, whether it be history or mathematics, as the principles present in thinkers such as Aristotle, Voltaire, and Kant serve as the basis for every scientific field of study. Philosophy also presents itself in art and music, and through studying philosophy one can better understand musical and artistic styles in different time periods. This club in particular will serve as a repository for good philosophical resources as well as a discussion space, since good material to study and learn from can often be hard to find among mountains of pseudo philosophy and glorified mysticism. Newer philosophers can often be stunted by such difficulties, becoming bogged down in meaningless mantras and ideologies that amount to nothing of substance, and without guidance see no point in continuing their studies. By creating a scholarly and learned community, the Philosophy club hopes to change that and provide a place where all can study well together and with good material.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership is not a huge importance in this club as most discussion is held as open seminar, where all can host topics and contribute to material being studied. However leaders are responsible for curating study material and providing guidance for all students, and for that reason the President and Vice President will both be elected by a majority vote in a simple unlimited majority vote. Leaders will normally be up for reelection every year, but in the case of unsatisfactory conduct from one or more leader(s), any member may ask that a meeting be held to discuss the trajectory of the club and actions of the leaders in lieu of a normal seminar. These meetings will have their initiator express their concerns, and afterward will open up to all members to comment and decide if the current leaders are fit. At the end of any impeachment inquiry, a vote will be held to keep the current leader(s) in question; a vote of 66% or more will overturn the new leaders and an election will be held that same meeting directly after.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy Philosophy is the only club dedicated to a proper and rigorous study of philosophy; this club focuses specifically on real works from accredited writers and looks for actual discussion of principles. Furthermore, Stuy Philosophy looks not only to examine these principles but apply them to history and modern day, observing the motives and actions of civilization through a philosophical lens instead of just being stuck in abstract principles. Most modern day philosophical discussion is back-and-forth meaningless debate that is unfounded in reality, but this club aims to change that and educate new philosophers in a much more effective and meaningful method of thinking in the field.

