Mission Statement:
StuySips is a club dedicated to everything about drinks! All lovers of tea, coffee, water, boba, and other beverages are welcome.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies, but we will most likely meet at least once or twice a month. We will send out a monthly poll to see which days will fit the best for our members.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuySips is a unique club at Stuyvesant dedicated to the art of beverages. The club welcomes all students who are interested in tea, coffee, water, boba, and other drinks. The club's main goal is to provide a wholesome environment where students can unwind and share their knowledge and experiences about drinks. The club will meet at least once or twice a month, and the meeting schedule is determined by member interest. The meetings will be unrigid, and members are encouraged to attend. The meetings will range from learning about different types of drinks; their traditional ways of preparation; the history behind beverages to relaxing study halls with snacks. Members will also have an opportunity to create their own drinks, accompanied by free snacks and drinks provided by the club leaders. The club's main objective is to allow members to relax and de-stress after tests and projects, preventing burnout and long-term stress.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Apart from creating a relaxed environment for students, the club also aims to spread awareness about the benefits of drinking tea and other beverages. Drinking beverages has been shown to have many benefits, such as reducing feelings of anxiety and stress, improving mental health, and allowing people to connect with each other. The club will provide alternative, healthier alternatives to popular caffeine sources like coffee and other energy drinks, which most of the school consumes on a daily basis. Our meetings will be unrigid and allow students to hang out with their friends and/or do assignments with an add-on of free snacks, academic learning about beverages, and the opportunities to make their own drinks like in real cafes. The club will also have potential fundraisers for important causes by selling drinks if the schedule permits. We seek to benefit the Stuyvesant community by fostering a greater connection to each other and to our cultures through sharing (traditional) beverages like tea. In addition to drinks, StuySips also offers various snacks from different cultures for the members to enjoy. This allows members to be exposed to diverse flavors and experiences that would not be in their normal diet, opening the opportunity for discussions and discourse about cultural foods. To conclude, this activity will benefit the student population throughout the school year through the provision of healthy drinks, a place to relax, and much more.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
StuySips will have 3-5 leadership positions depending on the number of members in the club. At any given time, there will be at least two co-presidents (for administrative tasks), an art director (for any art-related purposes), an outreach director (for social media managing and advertising), and an event coordinator (for collaborating with other organizations and creating events). The club leaders will host leadership applications via Google Forms and subsequent interviews when they graduate or step down. All members are allowed to apply, but active members are preferred. After the application period, current leaders will go through the applications and pick a new leader via voting. In the case that the leaders can not come to a consensus, the voting will be opened up to the members. If a leader is inadequate or corrupt, members can report to another leader; after the leaders evaluate the situation, all members are able to vote for impeachment if necessary. Any leader who breaks the rules will be demoted or removed from the club depending on the situation.

What makes this activity unique?:
StuySips is unique in its focus on relaxation and culinary aspects. The club will allow members to do hands-on activities like creating their own drinks with provided materials. Lastly, we seek to promote cultural awareness and diversity through unity in beverages present around the world, allowing more Stuyvesant students to experience drinks from different cultures. This club does not require any special talent or skill to join; all we ask for is open-mindedness in trying new drinks!

