Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Model UN team is a great place to learn about international relations, public speaking, debate, networking, leadership, and diplomacy.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We meet every Monday and Thursday at 3:35PM in room 335, with conferences usually being on Saturdays, though we do attend a couple collegiate conferences which last 3-4 days.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
StuyMUN is Stuyvesant's Model U.N. team and one of Stuy's largest clubs, and we're open to absolutely anyone. We're student-run and welcome both newcomers and experienced delegates to the High School Model UN circuit, and provide an especially great community for people interested in developing their public speaking abilities or even just a more informed global perspective and a greater awareness of world affairs. StuyMUN is a club that can be as high or low commitment as you'd like, and one in which the only limit to how much you can improve and develop yourself is how much effort you're willing to dedicate to it. 
We attend both local and collegiate conferences across the Northeast and throughout the year where we compete at High Schools throughout New York City as well as conferences at Brown, Johns Hopkins, George Washington University, and even the United Nations headquarters to discuss and develop solutions to some of the world's most pressing issues. You can attend as many or as few of these conferences as you'd like and can join at any point in the year. We hope you'll join us, and look forward to meeting you!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
StuyMUN provides a platform for students who are interested in speech, debate, or international affairs to get involved with Model UN (or continue participating in it, as many students get involved with Model UN in middle school). It's a great resource for people who are or aim to be well-informed about international politics and a wide array of current and historical topics and global issues. We offer students a place where they can voice their opinions, practice analyzing and discussing important issues faced by the world, learn about leadership and the skills it requires, and improve their public speaking abilities. We give students the opportunity to make connections with students from all across New York and the country, and to travel and compete at prestigious colleges and conferences which they might not be able to visit otherwise. We also provide financial aid to our students based on need, meaning that anyone dedicated to the club has an equal chance of proving themselves within it, and to move up its ranks. StuyMUN is an excellent place for Stuyvesant students to learn valuable skills, make strong connections, join (and contribute to) a wonderful community, and to learn about things that are important to them, all while developing themselves.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Secretary-General is the leader of the club and concerns themselves largely with communication with the club and external affairs, as well as with making sure everything runs smoothly in the Administration and Personnel departments. This position is elected in a ranked voting system. 
The Under-Secretary-Generals of Personnel help plan meetings and run the Personnel department. These two positions are elected in a ranked voting system. 
The Under-Secretary-General of Administration helps make sure that everything related to logistics (e.g. legal forms, booking hotels, registering for conferences, etc.). This position is elected in a ranked voting system. 
Director-Generals run StuyMUNC and miniMUNC, both of which are Stuy-hosted conferences. These two positions are elected in a ranked & ticketed voting system. 
These 6 positions make up the Secretariat. 
Each of these positions can appoint members to help staff their departments (apart from the Secretary-General, who does not run any specific department) with the approval of the majority of the Secretariat. These positions are not elected. 
Impeachment against a member of the Secretariat can be brought up after the collection of a petition for impeachment holding at least 15 signatures. Once the requisite number of signatures have been collected, a club-wide hearing will be held where the removal of said officer will be voted upon after hearing arguments on both sides.

What makes this activity unique?:
We are Stuyvesant's only Model United Nations team. No other club offers students the ability to help us host and attend Model UN conferences. While we're one of just a handful of clubs that offer an emphasis on public speaking and communication, we do so in a different way than other clubs, with an emphasis on networking, leadership, cooperation, and compromise. Additionally, we also focus on learning about politics and global affairs, both of the present and of the past.

