Mission Statement:
The Asian American Lit Club is a perfect fit for avid readers or anyone interested in exploring the Asian American experience through good works.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year but meet at least once a week.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The assumption that works by white writers is neutral and universal while works by minority writers are somehow exotic and reserved for people of those groups is a myth. This club encourages members to challenge these falsehoods by reading and talking about Asian American literature. Since Stuyvesant mainly restricts students to one English course/elective per semester, this club allows avid readers the opportunity to read works outside the Eurocentric canon. Because the Asian American Literature elective is unfortunately on a hiatus right now, this club also creates a semi-intellectually rigorous space for people who wanted to take the elective this year. Members can expect to read essays, fiction, poetry, and even plays by writers of East Asian, Pacific Islander, South Asian, and Southeast Asian descent. Members will deconstruct what it means to be “Asian American” and explore how identity is formed and reflected in these works. Meetings will be held once a week with assigned readings.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Exploring the literary works of Asian American writers offers a multitude of benefits for individuals of all backgrounds. Having a book club exclusively dedicated to Asian American works is important for Asian Americans at this school because being able to identify with the characters in texts is comforting in a canon dominated by White authors. For non-Asian American readers, engaging with these works fosters cross-cultural understanding and empathy, providing insights into unique perspectives and experiences. Through the perspectives of these narratives, readers are given glimpses into an enriched understanding of many different cultures that exist. Moreover, it helps shine a light on underrepresented voices, while promoting a more inclusive and diverse literary landscape. Dismantling barriers and inviting a broader spectrum of voices is important because it allows a more multifaceted and vibrant space where students can read stories from various walks of life. At Stuyvesant, students are mainly limited to taking only one major English course per semester. For students who love English and seek to broaden their literary horizons beyond the conventional curriculum, this club can help challenge the notion that most “great literature” is exclusively composed of white writers. By delving into the narratives of Asian American writers, this club ultimately helps enrich the Stuyvesant community by promoting inclusivity, broadening perspectives, and providing a more comprehensive understanding of the human condition.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Asian American Lit Club is led by three co-presidents who work together to design a semesterly literary syllabus, facilitate thoughtful discussions at meetings, run outreach and advertising endeavors, and maintain communication with members and the faculty advisor. These leadership positions are transferred between school years. If any co-president fails to complete their duties or contribute actively to the running of the club, members, their fellow co-presidents, or the faculty advisor may express any concerns. Each such instance will count as one strike against the co-president in question; if they receive three strikes, a club-wide vote, with the faculty advisor in attendance, will be taken on whether or not they should be removed from their position. Action will be taken immediately if a majority of members vote to remove this co-president. If any co-president resigns from their position or graduates out of the club, applications for the empty position will be sent out to club members; the current co-presidents and the faculty advisor will consult with each other about final appointments.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Asian American Lit Club is unique for its structured approach to appreciating literature by marginalized authors. This entails an organized semesterly syllabus, assigned readings, regular meetings, and discussion questions, which helps this club stand out from other hobby or special interest clubs by creating an environment that more than adequately serves as a substitute for the Asian American Literature elective that is currently on hiatus. Additionally, another unique aspect of this club is that members will receive the opportunity to explore and dive deep into literature from all genres and forms, not just novels. This includes anthologies, plays, comics, memoirs, poetry, and more. Lastly, although the Asian American Lit Club utilizes a more structured style than might be expected in other book clubs, members will still be able to participate in a low-commitment manner, meaning that they are free to take part in as many or as few discussions as they wish.

