Mission Statement:
Teach students about how investing can be used as a tool to make the world a better place

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will likely meet 1-3 times every week, depending on member and leader availability.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Investment Club aims to involve and educate Stuyvesant students in investing in, trading in, and analyzing the stock market. The organization will provide many of our students with their first experiences surrounding this topic. Our meetings will start with the basics and slowly work up to more in-depth and complicated topics, so no prior experience is required (although it certainly helps). Leaders of our organization will teach participants many useful skills which will be useful later in their lives if they choose to pursue careers revolving around finance and economics. Members are expected to show up to meetings consistently, as catching up on any missed material we present will be both confusing and challenging. Meetings will generally revolve around PowerPoint presentations, but discussion, debate, and asking questions will also play a key role in making sure that everyone is comfortable with what we are teaching and that we are doing a good job presenting the information.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This club will educate the student body on the financial sector of economics, an integral part of a professional career. To be a successful individual in this society, one must have a thorough grasp of the fiscal matters that exist all around us, which are all too often unknown to many. The transition from high school to college, and further into independence as an adult, can be very confusing and often frightening, although with proper knowledge of finances this transition becomes much less daunting. We hope to be this liaison that many students require, especially in a school like Stuyvesant where many come from immigrant households that do not fully understand the finances of our country and thus cannot pass any knowledge of the subject onto their children. Our board and leaders are very knowledgeable in this field and would be able to provide not only support but also guidance to students who wish to better understand the topics at hand. Not only would it be a great resource to those who wish to pursue a career in business and finance, but also to all who wish to be prosperous citizens and contribute to the economy on a greater scale. Overall, we believe this would be a very beneficial activity to Stuyvesant, as we would provide valuable information that would benefit the community both short term and long term.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
All leadership positions in the club are appointed to diligent members who consistently show up to meetings and fill out a written application. When the previous leadership graduates or steps down, they will choose their successors via a written application. All members may apply, though preference will be given to members who have already held leadership positions. If an individual with a position stops showing up to meetings or contributing to our presentations without any explanation, the President or one of the Vice Presidents will reach out to them in order to reach an agreement about their responsibilities within the club. This may lead to an impeachment, in which case the board will vote on a current active member to bring into said position. Members are expected to show up to a majority of the lecture meetings we have, since information we teach later in the academic year will require previous knowledge from our previous meetings. An absence from a meeting will be excused only when one of the board members has been informed about said absence no less than one day from the meeting

What makes this activity unique?:
The investment club is present at nearly every school, and Stuyvesant should be no different. While somewhat similar clubs focus on a business or economics perspective, at our club we will teach members about financial markets and about the basics of investing. Through self made simulations, we will offer members hands on investing experience, an offering not available in any other club. Additionally, we will primarily focus on Socially Responsible Investing(SRI), in order to teach members to use investing as a tool to better the world. We will also be partnering with the biggest finance club and the biggest business club at Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology, hosting insightful cross-state conferences. We will have meetings regularly, offer members access to an internship database, edit their resumes, present information concisely and partner up with other clubs.

