Mission Statement:
Stuy Percussion aims to teach students percussion instruments, like the drums, as well as how to record and produce online content with them.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Monday, Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will be bi-weekly, with us playing and practicing within the first floor band room.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Percussion aims to teach students percussion instruments, as well as record and produce online content with said instruments. There is no prior knowledge required, and new members can either help out with teaching, recording, and playing, or learn any percussion instruments that are taught at the club. We hope to help those who are not well versed in music or percussion instruments become so. Hopefully, we can spread our knowledge to others and be able to pass on the skills we have built over years. Learning new instruments is an incredibly useful (and rewarding) skill to know, and a pastime that never grows old. We hope to share this joy from playing the drums (and other percussion instruments) to others who don’t have the funding to pay for music lessons, or maybe just want to learn some cool songs to flex on their friends. We hope that, with this club, we can help others realize the value of percussion instruments, as well as helping them pick up new skills.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy Percussion will benefit the Stuyvesant community by allowing prospecting students to learn the ropes of percussion instruments. We hope to teach drums, mallets, xylophone, etc. We want to be able to teach others our skills and pass them on. Stuy Percussion hopes to teach members valuable skills in the realm of music and percussion. We will educate members on both the percussion instruments themselves, as well as the rich culture and history surrounding them. The club also will benefit members by teaching them valuable skills in recording and producing percussion. We hope to publish videos and recordings onto social media, both to further expand and promote the club and to create timeless content and memories for this club. Hopefully with access to the first floor studio, we can produce professional recordings of percussion instruments and be able to listen to our skills growing over time. The world of percussion is so much more than making loud noises or banging drums, and we are so excited to be able to share all of our knowledge with the rest of Stuyvesant. This club aims to create a strong community of both experienced and learning percussionists, who can all better their skills together.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
High ranking leadership positions will be reserved for people who are already well versed in the realm of percussion instruments. Most of our positions will also involve teaching and instruction, so our elections will involve either an audition or a judgment based on skill level. Outside of high ranking positions, involved club members may also be appointed with positions relating outside the realm of just music, such as social media producing and outreach. Leaders will be removed if they are not contributing to the team and are not participating. Members are expected to be respectful to the instruments, as many are school owned, and especially if we get the recording studio to be respectful of the equipment. As of now, our leadership spans to 2025 graduates so leadership will be transferred down the ladder as older leaders graduate. During these next few years, we hope that prospecting members in younger years will join to eventually overtake these positions and continue the legacy of the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
What makes Stuy Percussion unique is how we focus on a specific element of music, as opposed to some other clubs which may focus on being in a big band, like Stuy Philharmonic, or music production like the Stuy Music Production club. Stuy Percussion aims to teach percussion instruments such as mallets, drums, congas, xylophone, timpani, etc. We will have designated members to teach each instrument and also hope to record and produce percussion videos for social media.

