Mission Statement:
To teach students about basic military theory, review historical battles, host speakers, and play simple war games.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our club will attempt to meet every Tuesday, however if a meeting is not possible on the Tuesday of any week, another day of the week may be chosen.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Students will get to engage in activities that teach them about the basics of military theory. Members will be expected to show up to a meeting at least once per month, and be active participants in any exercises or games that we run. We will be studying famous historical battles, ranging from D-Day to Thermopylae. We will also learn about important tactics, including but not limited to defeating in detail, envelopment, committing the reserve, or shock actions. And to top it off, we will host speakers and play table-top war games to help students understand how ancient armies and modernized militaries engage in combat, taking into account differences in technology ranging from weaponry to logistical equipment. Members will also be expected to have a positive attitude and remember that the entire point of this club is to have some fun and destress during the busy week at Stuy, not turn it into an actual life or death scenario.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant has always had a wide variety of clubs. There's always something for everyone. However, this is a niche that still has yet to be filled. It provides something fun for Stuyvesant students to do during the week that's just a little bit unique. It will allow student to hone their critical thinking skills, as well as open up new patterns of thinking. Through studying these ancient battles, students get to put themselves in the shoes of historic generals and legendary figures, and see if they would make the same decisions. Stuyvesant students may be able to gain insight into current world affairs involving military action, and allow them to better understand the geopolitical landscape through the lenses of a commander. Additionally, the Stuyvesant school week can be ridiculously stressful, so this club just provides another way for students to relax and destress after a challenging day. And who knows, maybe one day all of this information might just come in handy if a student decides to join ROTC or attend a service academy. All in all, this will be something completely unique at Stuyvesant and provide a fun but enriching experience that Stuyvesant students may not be able to find in other clubs.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The only leadership positions are the club president and two vice presidents. Leadership positions will be voted on at the first meeting of each year, and only members who attended the club in the previous year will be allowed to vote, to ensure that noone just brings a bunch of their friends to the election who will never show up to any of the meetings. Leaders will be removed via an impeachment process. If a leader fails to attend at least 2 meetings per month, and does not actively participate in both of those meetings, either of the vice presidents will have grounds to impeach the president. The matter is then to be voted upon, where two-thirds or more or more of the club's members must agree that the president is no longer deserving of the role and should be impeached. This process goes both ways, and the president is expected to follow the same protocols to remove either of the vice presidents.

What makes this activity unique?:
We will be studying all sorts of famous historical battles, ranging from D-Day to Thermopylae. We will also be having lectures or table-wide discussions, but also be playing actual table top war games. We will also try to host speakers and generally just have a fun time. All in all, this will be something completely unique at Stuyvesant and provide a fun but enriching experience that Stuyvesant students may not be able to find in other clubs.

