Mission Statement:
Lessons on simple ways to make money through a “side-hustle” while achieving experience in the field of one’s choice.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet roughly 1-2 times a month, on Tuesdays, directly after school, for roughly an hour.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose is to help Stuyvesant students accumulate wealth from common everyday tasks within their community and create jobs for themselves through utilizing their existing skills. Also, students can obtain community service hours for college applications. Remote biweekly meetings Tuesdays from 5 to 6 (PM) on finding ways to make money without external knowledge. Students are often looked down upon due to their young age, but within this club, students will learn to accomplish personalized “hustles'' that target their specialties. Peers with similar interests will be able to get to know each other. With a program of such a wide range of skills and abilities, the possibilities for education are limitless. Students can teach each other a variety of skills including how to play instruments and how to cook (depending on their personal interests). Knowledge can and will be shared through the club while also making the community a better place. Seminars include lessons on Branding, Promoting, and Officiating. Occasionally, people who successfully took a mere hobby and made it a successful career field will join.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Students choose skills that they have proficiency in to promote and brand themselves to make money as a side job outside their school lives. This builds experience which will be necessary when looking for jobs in the real world. Students can receive hands-on practice with the world outside of a school setting while, again, gaining money and experience all at once. Many of the potential jobs allow students to gain community service since they will be bettering the community. Many students have yet to decide on a career path however, with the assistance of StuyHustles students receive the chance to experiment with a variety of career fields to test their options. Ultimately, students receive a far clearer idea of which area of interest they may want to pursue as a legitimate life career. StuyHustles saves students the time of searching for opportunities that match their fields of interest that would actually provide them with a monetary incentive. Students also learn to enhance their pre-existing skill sets to make themselves known to the public on a variety of platforms such as social media. Students will also be able to participate in a community of high-achievers who may possibly have similar interests as them.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
StuyHustles features a multitude of leadership positions: Scribe, IT Manager, Chief of Outreach, Chair of Opportunities, Director of Organization, and Leader-in-Training. The role of the Scribe is to send out Feedback Forms//Meeting Agendas (Monthly), write up emails to send out to members for events/updates/etc, send out biweekly email reminders to members with the Zoom link, send out reminders 3 days before, 1 day before, and one 30 minutes before meetings, and send out biweekly emails to students with the link to the slides from the last meeting. Next, the role of the IT Manager is to take attendance, make sure Zoom meetings are going smoothly, help with Instagram (uploading posts and stories), create feedback forms (through Google Forms), and work with the Chief of Outreach to formulate emails/messages to reach out to people over technology (email, socials, etc). Furthermore, the role of the Chief of Outreach is to send out personal DMs to students making them aware of the club, generally promoting our club on the Stuyvesant Facebook Page, sending out emails to officials (like teachers and staff) asking them to let their students know about StuyHustles and to remind other leaders and members to advertise the club on their personal socials or let their other Stuyvesant friends know about this opportunity. Following, the role of the Chair of Opportunities is to help find Guest Speakers that best fit our wants, find ways for students to make money, contact people who have experience in this field that would make an excellent guest speaker, and help make slides. As for the role of the Director of Organization, they grammar check our slides before meetings, answer questions/comments in the Zoom chat, help us schedule out Guest Speakers, help create monthly schedule calendars and, choose posts to send to IT manager to post. Moving on the role of the Leader-in-Training is to oversee and make sure the rest of the leaders are on track. They are accountable for giving strikes, creating lesson plans, and experimenting on themselves (with different jobs, etc). As a reform to keep leaders accountable, leaders will be given a strike if they are not sufficiently meeting the needed requirements for the given position. After two strikes, the member will have to resign from their current role. In order to receive a leadership position, applicants must fill out Google Forms which ask questions that relate to the specific role.

What makes this activity unique?:
In StuyHustles every individual receives the opportunity to display off their unique talents. There is no one particular targetted subject/study, rather tactics that can be applied to any interest. Students can promote themselves and their knowledge to the fullest. Their personal "job" can be anywhere from making children’s books and tutoring to helping people move. After going through lessons on how to promote ourselves self, we will test our skills by branching onto the real world. We will apply our skills to make money while branding ourselves which is the ultimate goal.

