Mission Statement:
Practice public speaking while strengthening persuasion skills, thinking on the spot, professional vocabulary, legal argumentation!

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The days we are going to meet are still to be determined, but will likely include Tuesday, or Wednesday and a day over the weekend on zoom. On some occasions, after school practice will be held at the office of our sponsor law firm. This will ensure that members are often able to come to both meetings, as we understand many are busy over weekdays. Our meeting schedule will usually ramp up before the competition season which takes place around February each year, but meetings will be once or twice a week. This is a fall semester activity meaning we will only be having meetings during the first semester.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Every year NYC holds a city wide competition in which all schools are given a case to be used for the entirety of the season. It is our job to get to know the case to the best of our ability, understanding the rules and precedents established in courts throughout the US. In Moot Court, students have the opportunity to act as a lawyer in the supreme court, using this simulation to gain skills in professional and public speaking alongside becoming more knowledgeable in important topics, such as civics, ethics, and governmental procedure.
With the goal to learn more about legal doctrine, students gain invaluable experience through the connections formed with other students involved in public speaking/law as well as practicing attorneys that aid us during our prep for competitions. As insight into law in the real world, Stuyvesant partners with prestigious law firms, like Cravath, Swaine & Moore, working with lawyers from these companies with the goal of building arguments reflective of real cases. Additionally, competitions are often held in official courtrooms as a way to give members experience with the many factors leading up to Supreme Court decisions. Even for those students not as interested in continuing into the legal field, this experience provides students with a valuable and educational opportunity to learn the intricacies and procedures of the legal doctrine as well as navigating in the professional/legal sphere. 
The case given covers two constitutional amendments, both of which will be argued by a prosecution and defense. Prosecution speakers represent the state/entity who is levying allegations while the defense speakers represent the person/entity who is being charged. The two speakers for each side will prepare a speech, ready to be questioned by judges.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Moot court offers students of all interests and backgrounds a unique opportunity to learn critical public speaking skills and a basic understanding of the fundamentals of our government's judicial system. Supreme Court trials are a completely unique form of argumentation as students are presenting in front of a panel of judges and learning presentation skills that go beyond argumentation. Through our team, members will learn how to navigate in professional settings, understanding how to break down questions to their true meaning as well as learning the art of breaking down cases to their real ideas. All of these are essential skills in regards to networking and working a room, to ensure that all those around understand one's ideas.
	Alongside all the public schools across New York City that we will form connections with, the law firm we will be working with is important for understanding how everything learned through school and extracurriculars are crucial throughout one's life. The paralegals we work with come from top universities, giving endless advice on college and intern admissions.
	Lastly, as members of Moot Court we highly value our community, so if there is every a time where members are unable to show up, or for personal reasons unable to complete certain deadlines on time, captains are more than open to make accommodations for all individual members.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Leadership positions for the club will be the team leaders or captains of the club. These positions will be determined by the faculty advisor and the current captains and there may be a transfer of leadership if one of the members in a leadership position graduates, steps down, or is impeached. Captains are responsible for arranging scrimmages and organizing competition logistics including travel expenses, administration permissions, and registrations. They will also be responsible for communicating information about the competition and the club to its members and obtaining annual funding with the input of the faculty advisor. Finally, captains will also choose the participants from their team for each scrimmage and competition in collaboration with the faculty advisor who must approve the final roster. In the event that one of the members in a leadership position neglects the responsibilities listed above or engages in inappropriate behavior using their authority any of the other members are allowed to raise an appeal for impeachment in which if it is approved by the faculty advisor will result in a team-wide vote on the issue. This vote will be facilitated by the faculty advisor and if 2/3 or more of the vote rules for the impeachment of that member, then they will be removed from their position and a replacement will be chosen.

What makes this activity unique?:
Through scrimmages with other high schools Moot Court teams, and official competitions facilitated by New York City, members will have the ability to network and gain unique knowledge from top law firms. Moot court is especially unique as it practices skills not only essential for a career in government, but any career involving persuasion especially in regards to speaking to a crowd and conveying one's idea. Another crucial skill we practice is thinking on the spot, which is, once again, essential when it comes to speaking to large groups of people.

