Mission Statement:
Stuy STEM Initiative is a place where people with interests in many different STEM fields can come together and work on research projects.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
General meetings will be 1-2 times a month, but department specific meetings can happen more or less depending on the circumstances. Meeting days can also shift depending on availability of members and department directors.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The purpose of this club is to foster a community that encourages STEM education and hands-on projects that give people experience in different fields. This would include a wide variety of activities such as investigating biodiversity in an urban environment, studying the epigenetic changes brought on by stress, or building a programming language from scratch. Different departments can also collaborate on projects that pertain to both subjects, creating an interconnected web of research and cooperation. A large part of Stuy STEM Initiative will also be collaborating with other people and clubs to create more research opportunities for those interested in STEM. General meetings will be hosted to help orient and educate people on different STEM subjects, as well as host clubwide projects and events. Department meetings will occur asynchronously, and will allow for people with specific interests to meet and discuss research. A large portion of the club will also happen online, as the majority of the club activities will occur outside of regular meetings.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Despite the abundance of STEM kids in Stuyvesant, there is a lack of clubs or activities that ecompass multiple fields and give people actual experience in those fields. Stuy STEM Initiative aims to fufill that need by providing a simple and easy way for people to get involved in research projects. This club provides opportunities to people who may not want to dedicate a large chunk of time conducting research or teaching themselves about science. Being low commitment, Stuy STEM Initiative gives its members total freedom over how much or how little they want to do, with the expectation that they still contribute whenever they can. Stuy STEM Initiative also prepares students for future science courses, especially those with a focus on research, such as the Biology Regeneron class. These classes focus on experimental design and reviewing data, which is something that this club is based upon. Stuy STEM Initiative will also teach students important skills, such as conducting a Polymerase Chain Reaction or website design. The asynchronous meetings also allow for people to learn multiple of these at the same time, while working on multiple research projects as well. In addition, students will be able to create their own projects and recommend topics they want to learn, which personalizes the experience. All in all, Stuy STEM Initiative provides the perfect launching point for anybody interested in STEM, whether they are new or experienced.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Stuy STEM Initiative’s leadership is structured similarly to that of a corporation. The CEO is in charge of running the administrative actions of the club. They control the day-to-day operations that the club undertakes, as well as any big endeavors that will change the club as a whole. Though the CEO needs support of the Board of Directors for larger decisions, the role acts as the official club leader for the front-facing club activities. The CEO gets elected by a popular vote from the club. Stuy STEM Initiative also has a board of directors, which act as the main governing body for the club. Large decisions that affect the club as a whole have to go through the board of directors to get enacted, and the board is in charge of maintaining checks and balances on the CEO. Each board member is also in charge of running their respective departments, and they are able to pick their own replacements from that department. The Chairman of the Board is in charge of making sure the board of directors operates smoothly. They act as the spokesperson for the board as well as a tiebreaker for important votes. To impeach a member of leadership, the board of directors have to vote to remove that person, in the presence of the CEO and Chairman. Replacements will then have to be chosen using an accelerated version of normal election procedure.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuy STEM Initiative is a completely new take on a science club at Stuyvesant. It combines both hands-on research and education on a handful of different subjects, allowing members to pursue whatever they are interested in, no matter how obscure or difficult it may be. The different departments allow for members to pick and choose between topics and projects, which gives more freedom than clubs with a rigid meeting structure. Whether its online or in person, anyone can participate and contribute to the club in a way that many other clubs do not allow.

