Mission Statement:
The Girls Wrestling Club is meant to empower young women through the art of wrestling since Stuy currently doesn't have a girls' wrestling team.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will vary depending on available space, but we will meet at least once a month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
This club aims to empower young women through the amazing art of wrestling! There will be weekly practices where girls can get together on the mat and learn how to wrestle. This is an amazing opportunity to learn a new skill while surrounded by an encouraging community. No experience required! At each practice, members will help set up, clean the mats, etc. This club will be composed of new and experienced wrestlers, built around a safe and organized environment. An experienced coach will come in to teach students and we will eventually prepare to attend tournaments as a club/team. This club is a great opportunity to try out a new sport, exercise, and get stronger. Stuyvesant currently does not have a girls wrestling team, so if you want to try it out, learn some new skills, or if you're a returning wrestler from the co-ed team in the winter, then this club is for you!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This club will empower the girls in the Stuyvesant community, as well as set an example for the rest of the community. Oftentimes, girls back out of joining the Co-ed Boys Wrestling team in the winter all due to the faulty stigma around wrestling boys. This club has neither of those pressures, so those who chickened out of joining wrestling in the winter may feel more comfortable trying it out in the spring. Wrestling will help students gain confidence, discipline, and respect for themselves. It will provide a much-needed opportunity to girls in stuy, to learn a combat sport. Stuyvesant does not have any other club much like this one. Wrestling (being the only physical combat sport) in Psal, is a relatively safe and organized sport. Psal doesn't currently allow Stuyvesant to create a girls wrestling team, so this club will prove just how much interest girls wrestling in Stuyvesant truly has. In addition, it is important to stand up to gender discrimination and unfairness that this situation creates. This club will serve as a message to create positive change in one's community and fight for equal rights. Other schools have girls wrestling teams, and Stuyvesant has a boys wrestling team, so why not a girls? Young women deserve to have the opportunity to empower and improve themselves.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The current leadership positions will be captains and co-captains. Captains will be selected on their leadership skills, their year in Stuy, their compassion, and their skill/experience in wrestling. Co-captains will be selected based on potential, leadership skills, their year in Stuy, their compassion, and their skill/experience in wrestling. Leaders are expected to be encouraging open to educating new members about wrestling. Members are expected to show up to practices and try their hardest to learn and improve while there. If absent, they should have a valid excuse and tell the captains beforehand. While at practice, members should be welcoming to each other and open to learn and help their peers. Between school years, the coach and the captains will collectively decide on next year's captains, and so on. If leaders miss too many practices or don't show enough initiative, then their positions will be revoked. Three strikes will be given before their position is revoked.

What makes this activity unique?:
This club is unique because Stuyvesant doesn't have any other physical combat sports that target the female population. No other club will have mats laid out or an actual coach to help teach a PSAL sport. In all of Stuy's past years, PSAL has never allowed a girls wrestling team, which many students deem highly unfair. This club both serves as a fun new experience and a deep message. We are working to prove PSAL wrong. We are here to prove that Stuy deserves girls wrestling.

