Mission Statement:
ARISTA is Stuyvesant High School's Honor Society. The organization's members proudly serve their community through tutoring and service initiatives.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday, Wednesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
ARISTA holds at least one general meeting per semester, not including the induction ceremony that takes place in either June or early September. The EC and the committees are expected to meet at least biweekly, either in person or virtually.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
ARISTA was founded and operates on four pillars: scholarship, leadership, character, and service. As an honor society, ARISTA upholds these values by volunteering in school-wide events (such as parent-teacher conferences and open houses), partnering with external organizations, and tutoring students both inside and outside of school. ARISTA comprises around 175 junior and senior members and around 20 sophomore members through our Sophomore Program. While junior and senior members are required to fulfill both tutoring and events credit requirements, sophomore members must fulfill events credit requirements only. However, sophomore members can tutor students if desired. Applications for both general membership and the Sophomore Program become available in January for current freshman, sophomore, and junior students, and induction into ARISTA occurs in early September. Prospective applicants are required to maintain a minimum overall grade point average of 92, and ARISTA membership will be determined after a thorough review of grades, extracurricular activities, responses to three open-response questions, and a 20-minute-long interview. In addition, ARISTA has three committees: Events & Service, Web Development, and Operations. Rising sophomore, junior and senior ARISTA members can apply to these committees in June.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
ARISTA is a valuable resource to the student body at large, offering study guides, 1:1 peer tutoring, essay editing, and AIS tutoring sessions. Each year, hundreds of Stuyvesant students utilize ARISTA’s resources to gain additional academic support, prepare for exams, review homework assignments, and much more. We hope to make the transition to and journey through Stuyvesant as seamless as possible by showing how rewarding it can be to seek additional help. Members of ARISTA gain invaluable experience volunteering for a variety of organizations across the city, tutoring District 1 middle school students, forming connections with their driven and passionate peers, and giving back to the Stuyvesant community by helping students succeed on an academic and personal level. Moreover, ARISTA’s committee members serve as leaders within the organization, whether it be leading weekly events at a local soup kitchen, overseeing tutoring sessions after school, or adding innovative features to our website,stuyarista.org. ARISTA is not only a benefit to the Stuyvesant community but also to the greater New York City community as well, consistently striving to meet the needs of the city and our student body. Every year, ARISTA continues to add new initiatives and partnerships that expand its impact across diverse communities. ARISTA strives to reimagine and redefine what an honor society can be -- a connected community of thinkers, leaders, and contributing citizens of the world.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Executive Council (EC) consists of five members: the President, Vice President of Operations, Vice President of Events and Service, Vice President of Web Development, and the Faculty Advisor. The EC is the executive branch of ARISTA, responsible for all of its operations and responsibilities not delegated to other entities, such as managing its committees and overseeing its members. All members of the EC serve one year terms, lasting from induction to the next year’s induction. Each member of the EC is selected by the previous EC with the approval of the Faculty Advisor. In order to make a fair and educated decision, the EC application consists of a written application, a teacher or guidance counselor recommendation, and an interview for as many as all or as few as necessary applicants. All members of the EC and the faculty advisor must be present (either physically or virtually) for all interviews. All members of the EC and the faculty advisor must read all applications. Any selection must be approved by a unanimous vote of the EC and the Faculty Advisor. Moreover, a member of the EC can be removed for due cause (this may include disciplinary actions, sickness, inability to perform his/her duties, etc). To remove a member from the EC, a unanimous vote of the three other EC members must occur. All members of the EC have equal responsibility and no one member can make an executive decision without the agreement of the whole. Different positions exist on the EC so as to provide division of labor to assist the entire EC in completing their many tasks.

What makes this activity unique?:
As Stuyvesant’s official Honor Society, serving as a role model for an organization that is an integral part of both Stuyvesant and New York City is a unique opportunity and privilege. ARISTA allows its members to explore a wide variety of tutoring and service initiatives that extend far beyond the borders of Stuyvesant. ARISTA open the doors to making a tangible impact in the community, whether it is teaching Living Environment to an 8th grade class, speaking to senior citizens as part of the Phone Angels program, or tutoring a student from a high school in a different borough. ARISTA strives to make volunteering services accessible, meaningful, and rewarding.

