Mission Statement:
Math Survey publishes math and computer science research, articles, and puzzles to promote human flourishing throughout the entire Stuy community.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year to accommodate members' needs, but we meet at least once a month and after publications. If a member misses a meeting, the editor-in-chiefs will be available to reschedule.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuyvesant Math Survey, the official publication of the Mathematics and Computer Science Department since 1927, promotes human flourishing throughout the entire Stuyvesant community of students, faculty, administration, and alumni through research articles, news articles, feature articles, and puzzles written by students and guest contributors of various backgrounds who are committed to problem-solving and innovation everywhere. By meaningfully contributing to one or more of its six departments (math, computer science, puzzles, art, layout, and business), students seek to engage, entertain, inform, and inspire mathematicians and computer scientists in various stages of their journeys. The staff of Math Survey is actively dedicated to fostering curiosity, collaboration, cooperation, and communication to enrich the lives, education, pursuits, and careers of all those served by the math and computer science community. Each member is dedicated to producing the best quality work while also enjoying the processes of collaboration and discovery. Math Survey has featured editors and writers like Brian Greene and Lisa Randall who later become among America’s most accomplished problem solvers.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Math Survey allows its members to continue a cherished and prestigious tradition full of rich history while delving into math and computer science with their peers. There are several options of how to contribute, including, but not limited to - writing articles, exploring math beyond the classroom through research, creating puzzles or problems, making mathematical illustrations, interviewing faculty members or alumni, editing the articles, leading a department, or helping create another aspect of the publication. Many students have already conducted research within Stuyvesant or outside of school, and Math Survey gives them the chance to have their research featured in the publication and have it reach a wider audience. Math Survey strives to foster a community to produce a meaningful, creative, and in-depth mathematics publication. Being part of Math Survey does not only give members the opportunity to work on a distinguished publication, but also to collaborate and to form new bonds with students with similar interests to theirs. We also invite former editors to visit and/or write the forward for Math Survey, as well as include articles by distinguished guests in mathematics and computer science to inspire and motivate the current members. For the 2021-2022 Edition, distinguished guests included Dr. Michael Develin (Class of 1996), Professor Emeritus Paul A. Zeitz (Class of 1975), and Mr. Patrick Honner. For the 2022-2023 Winter Edition, distinguished guests included Professor Joel Lewis (Class of 2003), Mr. JonAlf Dryland-Weaver (Class of 2001), Dr. Jeffrey N. Heinz, and Mr. Konstanin Kakaes. Once the publication is completed, we work to have each edition reach as many math and computer science enthusiasts as possible. We also maintain a website (stuymathsurvey.com) that makes previous editions more accessible.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
At the start of each school year, the faculty advisor will approve an editor-in-chief for the duration of the school year. The editor-in-chief appoints the departmental editors. During the school year, core leadership changes with the editor-in-chief must be approved by the faculty advisor. Each department is headed by an editor. Department leadership positions will be appointed by the editor-in-chief based on the review of each member's experience and capabilities as well as their interest in contributing to Stuyvesant Math Survey. All articles will be edited by the faculty advisor and editor-in-chief before final publication. Leaders who repeatedly do not fulfill their duties after several discussions and warnings may be removed after the faculty advisor has heard all sides of the situation. Members are expected to actively participate in and advance their departments. Members are also expected to communicate, collaborate, and cooperate with one another in order to publish Math Survey with integrity.

What makes this activity unique?:
Math Survey offers students an opportunity to express their passion for math and computer science, including their research and interesting developments. Math Survey allows contributors to share their problem-solving and proof skills and combine individual ideas to form collective ones. In addition, this publication will inspire the next generation of math and computer science enthusiasts as they see their fellow classmates pursue research and concepts outside the classroom. Math Survey creates public interest in the fields of math and computer science through puzzles, art, and features. Math Survey has inspired students for generations and has continued to do so.

