Mission Statement:
Aims to create a community where students can collaborate and engage in discussion of topics concerning multiracial identity.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Meetings will most likely be held on Mondays afterschool. However, this is subject to change depending on what works best for our members.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Multiracial Student Union will provide a community at Stuy for students to come together and learn more about multiracial life. This club will include sharing experiences of your own, discussing questions about multiracial identity, learning about others’ cultures, and much more. Throughout the school year, there will be several events and outings to connect and engage with each other. We will have holiday parties where members are going to present the way they celebrate their holidays in a multiracial household, guest speakers, participate in food drives (members will bring foods from their different cultures), and things of such. The members will decide collaboratively what they want to see for the future of the club. Members are expected to attend our weekly meetings and contribute to the discussions in the club, whether this is by sharing a personal experience, asking questions, suggesting ideas, etc. We would also like for our members to participate in our events and afterschool/weekend outings.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant Multiracial Student Union provides a community for Stuyvesant students of mixed-race backgrounds to come together and create a supportive and encouraging space where they can feel fully included and accepted. Being that there are few multiracial students at Stuyvesant, this is a great opportunity to connect with and meet similar people. The identity of being mixed-race can be very isolating for teenagers, during a vital time of self-discovery and belonging. It is important for there to be a safe space at Stuyvesant for mixed-race students to feel supported and allow them to further their sense of self. The contents of a meeting will vary from meeting to meeting, from presentations, discussions on the multiracial experience and how one fits into their family and other predominantly monoracial communities, bonding events to solidify a supportive environment, etc. Through every meeting, students will be able to learn from and relate to others’ personal experiences, especially experiences of being mixed. Through these discussions, members will learn more about the cultures of their peers, as well as feel free to fully explore their own identities without the fear of not being “enough” of any one identity. Ultimately, StuyMSU aims to create a strong, tight-knit community among members.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
We will have one president and one vice president, or 2 co-presidents. We will also have other roles such as directors. This club appoints leaders via application. Members that are interested in leadership will be able to apply via a Google Form at the end of each semester, or as needed. The current leaders will discuss whether or not they believe each applicant should be given a leadership role, based on the following: their application, their commitment to the club, and their contributions to the club. The applicant(s) that have the strongest qualities in these requirements will be selected for a leadership role. If it is noticed that a member exceeds at the latter two and hasn’t applied for a leadership position, they may be asked by the current leaders to accept one. If anyone in the club thinks that someone is worthy of a leadership role, they are encouraged to let the current leaders know! Additionally, if someone thinks that the current leader(s) are not fit to be in their position, they should write us an email explaining their concerns. If there seems to be a problem with the current leadership, this person will be impeached and the club members will elect a new leader.

What makes this activity unique?:
There are many clubs at Stuy for several different identities and cultures, yet some students may not feel that they fit into just one group. StuyMSU aims to create a space where students in that situation can feel comfortable and welcomed. Although people of different backgrounds may have different experiences, the shared trait of having multiple backgrounds results in experiences that are different yet very similar. Members will be able to share and learn from others’ varied experiences and backgrounds.

