Mission Statement:
EcoBiz teaches students about Sustainable Business along with transitioning small businesses to environmentally friendly practices and materials.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule varies throughout the year, however we plan to meet at least twice a month, virtually and/or in-person. If needed, we will adjust the day of the week in which our meetings are hosted to best fit everyone's schedule.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
EcoBiz aims to teach students about the ever-growing world of sustainable business through lessons/presentations held during club meetings. EcoBiz harnesses the innovation of students to develop affordable alternatives to the environmentally damaging business practices that the club teaches about. This club combines environmental awareness with business and gives students an opportunity to dive deeper into the shift of businesses over to eco-friendly solutions as a response to climate change. Students of the club help bring sustainable resources to small businesses by connecting them with suppliers that can provide environmentally-friendly packaging. This allows us to reduce plastic usage and waste in our communities. With today’s problems of consumerism, fast fashion, and over packaging, we dispose of lots of plastic, which harms our environment and society. The goal of EcoBiz is to eliminate as much non-biodegradable waste as possible, while ensuring that small businesses can afford to do so. Living in a green environment shouldn’t be a luxury–it’s a right.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
EcoBiz is a unique club that provides multiple benefits for the Stuyvesant Community. The club allows students with interests in business or environmental science to connect and collaborate to learn more about sustainable business while creating an impact for the community. This club strengthens the connection between Stuy and local businesses, by benefiting the environment that we live in and giving students a head start in a growing field. It also enables students to get involved with environmental activism and apply scientific knowledge in interdisciplinary and actionable ways that help the community as a whole through introducing students to networks of environmental collaboration in business. Furthermore, this promotes a healthy mindset for environmental awareness and love for business-related careers. While taking part in the development of a transforming economy, the club immerses students in real-world issues that are affected by the problems that small businesses face, and the problems that climate change poses. This provides a chance to participate in an actionable change and prepare for students' own futures in optimizing their later career paths with the environmental knowledge they learn. Hands-on experience with corporate finance will also serve students' ability to use their environmental awareness in the businesses we connect them to and throughout their educations.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Every year, applications and interviews for the following year’s leadership positions will be released in the spring semester. If you are accepted, you will then be trained in order to ensure a smooth transition into the next year. The positions of this club are: 2 Co-Presidents (who apply together), a Secretary, a Finance Director, two External Communications Directors, two Teaching Directors, and a Social Media Director. Co-presidents stay in their position until they step down, get impeached, or graduate. All Directors stay in their position until the following school year begins. Members are considered active if they have a meeting attendance rate of 50 percent or more. All board members must be present at all meetings unless a valid excuse is given. In order to impeach a director, you need 2/3 of active club members to agree including one person in a leadership position.  If a Director is impeached, the Co-Presidents will have members apply to replace the position. If one Co-President is impeached, then both of the Co-Presidents are required to leave office. In order to impeach Co-Presidents, you need 75% percent of members to agree and 75% of the Directors to agree. All final decisions will be made by the Co-Presidents, however they are expected to listen to the suggestions of all club members.

What makes this activity unique?:
EcoBiz teaches students about the growing sustainable business industry and allows them to apply their knowledge gained in real life. The club allows students to build connections with external organizations, enabling them to gain a strong foundation into not only business but also environmental science. As a result, EcoBiz lets students foster a sense of community through collaboration with other organizations. EcoBiz will also partner with other schools at the same time, to build a strong connection of students from different areas of the community who share similar interests.

