Mission Statement:
We aim to celebrate and explore a variety of cultures and nations through informative presentations, sharing of food, and fun conversations.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will vary throughout the year, but we plan to meet at least twice a month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
In the Cultural Food club, we will have presentations about cultural or general international foods. The following meeting will be where we share food. If you wish to partake in the food meetings, you are expected to come to the presentation meetings where you’ll learn about the background of a culture/nation, its accompanying dishes, and its meaningful background. During those meetings, we will discuss our interests and anything else that people may want to share. We are also open to taking suggestions for the culture that members want to work on next. In the following week(s), bring in the chosen cultural food to be shared with the rest of the members. You can make it yourself or, if you aren’t a baker/cook, purchase it. Each person should try and bring in a particular food fitting for the culture or nation—it can be a small snack, just make sure there's enough to share according to the number of members who participated in the presentation meeting. During the food meetings, enjoy the food and partake in fun discussions with each other! This club strongly encourages members to form connections with each other.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
We want to bring cultural awareness to the Stuyvesant community. This club promotes the learning of different cultures/nations and also the engagement with each one through food. There are so many under-appreciated cultures that we never get to learn about or interact with and this club can bring those cultures to our school classrooms. Behind each culture lies a rich history and valuable meaning, and by teaching these aspects, we can expand our global knowledge, thought, and understanding. Cultural food clubs allow for a way to preserve and celebrate cultural diversity; they bring a sense of comfort and community that allows to break stigmas of cultural foods. More than that though, our club offers the unique personal experience of bringing in and tasting these cultural foods. There's a special community bond that's formed only through the sharing and eating of food together, similar to that of the connection between family and close friends. This allows students to express themselves, connect with others, and enrich their relationship with various cultures and nationalities. Through this club, we can break the limits of interactive learning and connections between people. We hope to form a large community within Stuyvesant that focuses on the respect and appreciation of any culture. But also, we also want a space where students can take some time away from the stress of school and get to enjoy sharing meals and eating together.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The available leadership roles include co-president and co-president or president and vice president. These roles would be appointed by the previous president(s). Members who wish to succeed the current leaders should submit a google form. The google form will consist of short questions evaluating their leadership skills. Their student’s answers will be taken into consideration for the role. The main determining factor will be based on the member’s willingness to commit and dedicate to the club. This includes showing up to every meeting to the best of their abilities, bringing in food on the appointed days, and interacting and showing engagement during the presentations. Leaders may be removed by the other leader if enough members of the club voice their distaste with a leader’s behavior. If a leader generally does not commit to their duty as a president or is toxic to the club environment, they can be removed from their position as well.

What makes this activity unique?:
While numerous other clubs focus on a specific culture, nationality, or food, we offer a blend of multiple cultures and nationalities and an interactive experience with their foods. With the mandatory presentation meetings prior to the food sharing meets, club members are encouraged to learn about the different cultures rather than just consuming food. The act itself of bringing in food to the club is also an interactive experience. Those who are bakers/cooks can spend their free time creating meaningful foods. It also encourages students new to cooking to try it out. However, the club isn’t limited to cooks because anyone can contribute as long as they’re able to purchase food and bring it in. The sharing and tasting of cultural foods in class creates a comfortable atmosphere and a chill learning experience for members.

