Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Donated Apparel’s main focus is fostering creativity by designing clothes and helping those in need.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule will be once a month but extra meetings may be made depending on what needs to be done on time.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
SDA is a student-led non-profit organization focused on designing graphics for clothing and providing to those in poverty and homelessness. Members will have the opportunity to create draft graphics on their own time, which will undergo a voting system to see which designs are most liked. The selected designs will then be chosen by designated groups. These groups will work together to develop these drafts into designs. In the circumstance where a member lacks experience with digital art, other members could transfer their physical work into a printable design. Those graphics will then be printed on articles of clothing, such as t-shirts, hoodies, and sweaters, which will be sold to students in Stuyvesant. Any leftover clothing will be donated to those in need through means such as The Salvation Army, and the profit made from sales will either be donated directly or used to buy amenities for those in homeless shelters. Presidents will also coordinate seasonal events, such as donating candy and gifts to children in need during the holidays. General members are expected to create designs on their own time and attend the meetings to discuss any possible changes and future steps. There will be deadlines for designs so members are expected to balance their schoolwork and contribute to the club. For those who aren't interested in creating designs, there will be several available spots for those who are interested in helping with the task of distributing the clothing and amenities. The Sales department will be managing the club's funds and resources.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
SDA will be an incredible opportunity for those with creative talents and those who are interested in expanding their creative abilities to express their ideas in a productive and impactful way. Designs will be created with a purpose in mind, not just aesthetic value. These designs could potentially be created in groups, which promote teamwork and bonding within the club. Members will also have the opportunity to practice communication skills, as the club will have to preemptively reach out to other organizations in order to coordinate events. The club is open to accept anyone and everyone who is willing and passionate to help our cause. Even those who aren't interested in designing clothing will have numerous opportunities to support those in need. SDA will also provide members with the ability to spread awareness of the severity of homelessness and poverty all around the world. Most importantly, we will be helping those in need in some way or another. The club is formatted in such a way that regardless of our success, creativity and support are constantly growing at a quantifiable rate. Participating in these activities will give students hands on experience with volunteering and charity. Members will also have the opportunity to travel to different locations around the city and meet the very people that they're helping, making the effort they're putting in more personal.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The main leadership positions are Presidents, Graphic Design Managers, Social Media Manager, and Treasurer/Materials Manager. Presidents consist of our co-founders who overlook the operations of each department and ensure a constant and stable workflow. Graphics Manager will be in charge of deadlines regarding creation of designs as well as quality of work and voting for designs. They will also be choosing group leaders based on their leadership skills and artistic talent. Social Media Manager will be in charge of our Instagram and TikTok account, organizing the creation of posts and videos. Treasurer/Materials Manager will be in charge of managing the club's funds and resources, as well as coordinating the specific ways in which we donate said profits. Once a position becomes open, general applicants will go through a form application as well as an interview conducted by the Presidents to ensure that they are placed in the appropriate department, followed by a vote amongst the Presidents. In the case that a manager isn't fulfilling their duty, there will also be substitutes who will replace their position for the sake of the club's stability. In the case of transfer of leadership between school years, Presidents will stay the same and they will either choose to keep the Managers, or elect new ones.

What makes this activity unique?:
SDA is not only an outlet for creativity but also spreading awareness for those in need. The organization brings light to the often ignored issue of homelessness, giving all people of all skillsets the ability to directly help and see the impact they're making. It also allows their work to be publicly distributed, allowing for people to expand their portfolio as well as develop their own skills and have unique experiences. There will also be the opportunity to gain volunteer hours by visiting shelters to help distribute clothes, amenities, and food. SDA will be a welcoming family for those who are compassionate and creative.

