Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Sticky Fingers (Girls) bring Ultimate Frisbee to the Stuyvesant community, allowing players to compete in games in and out of the city.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Previously, the Stuyvesant Sticky Fingers have met 3 times a week (Mon, Thurs, and Sat) to practice throughout the year. During the Spring season, the team would meet up to play games against other teams in the city. Most out-of-state games would be on holiday weekends. This year, the captains will try to follow this schedule, but special attention to members’ availability will be kept in mind.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Representing Stuyvesant High School, the Stuyvesant Sticky Fingers team compete in Ultimate Frisbee games in and out of the city. Members often practice on fields in Upper Brooklyn and travel out of state to tournaments and competitions. No prior experience is necessary because the team teaches new players the basics, from throwing a disc to movement on the field. Ultimate Frisbee heavily emphasizes team spirit: from handlers moving the disc, to cutters advancing it forward, to sideline calls providing guidance to players on the field, the teamwork involved in the sport is critical. As beginners practice and develop more skills, they will be exposed to more advanced levels of play. The people players make bonds with on Ultimate are not just limited to the sport and school: they will be your friends outside of the field as well! Come pick up a disc and join this tight-knit community of athletes! 

Joining Ultimate requires a commitment to work hard! Showing up to most, if not all, practices is a good indication of your commitment. Members are expected to purchase a pair of cleats if they are committed to playing Ultimate Frisbee. They are also recommended to have a disc on them (the team will provide a team disc if players do not know where to purchase it). This way, players can practice throwing the frisbee outside of practice as well.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant Sticky Fingers community is open to all people who are interested in the sport, regardless of sex, gender, race, skill level, background and athleticism. We offer students a break from a stressful school life, and let members play in a competitive but fair and positive environment. By emphasizing the spirit of the game, sportsmanship, teamwork, communication, and respect, we grow together as teammates, players, and individuals. As players’ dedication to the team grows, they will form close relationships with members from both the girls’ and boys’ teams, and even with players outside of Stuy. Through tournaments, players will be pushed both physically and mentally, and will meet people from different states that equally love the sport. Members will even be able to see professional players and be taught by them. Again, the team teaches all players everything they need to know - how to throw and catch a frisbee, the game logistics, and even things as simple as relearning the best running posture - at the beginning of the school year to prepare them for game season in the spring. As a beginner-friendly sport, the Sticky Fingers provides everyone in the Stuyvesant community with a chance to relieve their stress while also playing a fun sport. Ultimate Frisbee does require a lot of commitment, but players within the community are exposed to many benefits that outweigh this con. The commitment requirement will also push students to better manage their time and balance all of their activities alongside school. After all, the Sticky Fingers community is always willing to help new players adjust to Stuy!

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The girls' Ultimate Frisbee team typically has two senior captains and one junior captain or one senior captain and two junior captains. Coaches and the previous year's captains choose seniors and juniors to fulfill this role through discussion. Factors that are considered for potential captaincy include dedication to the sport and team and leadership skills. The chosen candidates are asked if they accept the title as the next year's captains, and if they do, all three captains are announced at the beginning of the year. Impeachment is also done through discussion between the coaches and the other captains. If the offending captain demonstrates poor leadership, a lack of dedication to the team, or offending/improper behavior, they will be given a warning at first. If the offending captain continues to showcase improper behavior and poor leadership, the coaches and the other captains will remove the offending captain from their position and choose a new captain to fulfill the role.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Stuyvesant Sticky Fingers are always open to new members who are interested in playing the sport. Ultimate Frisbee emphasizes “Spirit of the Game,” which means that players resolve conflicts on the field with each other (that's right, no referees!). The community is determined to create a positive and fair playing environment for everyone, ensuring that everyone has fun playing the sport, regardless of the score. To enforce this, the team emphasizes the rules of the game, but above all else, good sportsmanship and respectfulness to themself, each other, other teams, and the environment.

