Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Writing Center enlists students with exemplary writing skills and trains them to help their peers improve their own writing!

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The Executive Team meets virtually or in the Writing Center room every other week. Editors may sign up to work on essays at any time through the Writing Center website and are expected to dedicate at least one free period per week (if possible) to in-person editing in the Writing Center room.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Stuyvesant Writing Center is a student-run organization that helps students from all grade levels with their academic writing. Our editors revise and provide detailed feedback to students who submit their essays or other written pieces, either in person (in room 615F) or virtually via the Writing Center website (wc.stuy.edu). Editors in this club are expected to consistently check the Writing Center website, sign up for shifts in the Writing Center room, and fulfill any quotas if they are instituted. Editors are also expected to approach each mentee in a personable but professional manner. For every edited piece, editors are asked to enter the amount of time spent on it and receive confirmation from their mentee that the piece was worked on, all through the Writing Center website. 

Mentees, on the other hand, are expected to make any submissions to the website at least 24 hours in advance and respond to any follow-up communication from the Writing Center, including the automated confirmation email after the piece has been edited. Mentees are also asked to remain respectful of editors' time and contributions.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Writing Center is open to all students who wish to receive commentary and critique on an essay. Writing Center editors work diligently to provide helpful and insightful feedback on essays pertaining to the mentee's needs. Students can request Writing Center editors to focus on certain aspects of their essay that they’d like to improve, such as grammar or analysis. This can benefit the Stuyvesant community by fostering a culture within Stuy that encourages seeking academic advice from peers, which can boost students’ confidence in their work and help students identify their strong suits. Students can also utilize the feedback they receive for essays in the future, since receiving help from the Writing Center can potentially improve the quality of an essay. 

Being a part of the Writing Center team can help editors practice their editing skills, and editors can also strengthen their own essays based on the experience they gain from being part of the Writing Center. Furthermore, editors receive the opportunity to build friendships and beneficial academic relationships with fellow editors. The Writing Center also offers leadership opportunities. Students can gain leadership experience as executives or managers. Through this, they can also gain skills in collaboration, communication, and organization.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Writing Center Executive Team consists of five editors—three Editors-in-Chief and two Editors-in-Training—and two IT Directors. The Executive Team is responsible for all Writing Center operations, including selecting Writing Center editors, appointing managers, holding orientations for both returning and new editors and managers, overseeing essay editing, running the Writing Center social media accounts (such as Instagram and Facebook), updating the Writing Center website, promoting the Writing Center to the broader Stuyvesant community, and maintaining the Writing Center room. Members interested in being appointed to a leadership position are required to submit a written application, usually released late in the spring semester. Each qualified applicant is interviewed by the previous year's Executive Team. If selected for an executive position, members are expected to attend all Executive Team meetings, provide their input on the running of the Writing Center, and work respectfully with the rest of the Executive Team. If an executive is not actively contributing to the organization or not cooperating with the rest of the Executive Team, the other executives will approach them with their concerns. If they continue to behave in the same manner, an anonymous vote will be held among the other executives, with the faculty advisor in attendance, on whether or not to remove them. At least half of the voters must vote in the affirmative to remove the executive in question.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Writing Center is one of the few student-run and student-staffed tutoring services at Stuyvesant. Unlike other tutoring services outside of Stuyvesant, the Writing Center is completely free and allows students to obtain thorough and insightful feedback from peers who can provide sincere suggestions, which may otherwise be hard to understand when coming from adults. The Writing Center is also mutually beneficial for the editor and the individual receiving feedback. While the mentee is receiving information on how to improve their writing, the editor is sharpening their own abilities by constantly being exposed to new writing styles and techniques.

