Mission Statement:
A club for singers, producers, songwriters, and anyone else interested in making music to come together and produce original songs to be released!

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We meet generally once a month, but can have additional recording sessions on weekends and afternoons.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Hey, have you ever listened to a song and liked it? No matter what you answered, SMPC is the place for you! The Stuyvesant Music Production club is a place for musicians of all kinds to collaborate on the creation of original music. We accept singers, songwriters, producers, musicians, or anyone with any kind of interest in making music and strive to empower those who want to create. Each year, we work to produce an album featuring vocalist and musician members of the club, and we work to record and release it by the end of the year; though our past has not reflected this work ethic, we are committed to ensuring our members can have their songs heard – both metaphorically and very literally, as we teach the basics of music production and songwriting and also upload our songs to Spotify and all other streaming services. Stream SMPC, Vol. 3!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
"SMPC exists for anyone who's ever just wanted to make a song." - Al Gore
Al Gore may not have said that, but the Stuyvesant Music Production Club can genuinely serve as an outlet for students to express their creativity through music, giving a chance for anyone interested in making songs the knowledge and materials to write, produce, record, and release them! We've brought together many producers and singers to create music in the past and plan to continue doing so this upcoming year with even more features for Stuyvesant artists. Specifically, we are thinking of utilizing the in-house Stuyvesant recording studios (as part of Mr. Stephan's Manhattan Music Project) for members to record their songs right at the school, as well as microphones lended out to members lacking equipment. We also plan to collaborate with Stuyvesant videographers and editors to shoot music videos for songs, and additionally meeting with Stuyvesant artists to make cover art for different singles and our next album. We think the intersectional nature of this club allows it to have a benefit beyond simply empowering musicians but also bringing together different people at Stuyvesant to create something amazing. We are all in for Stuy artists and fostering creativity.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Members are expected to show up to at least half of roughly eight meetings in the school year. Members are also expected to contribute to the annual album in some form, whether art, song, promo, or another aspect of the project. Disrespect between community members is not tolerated, and any reports of misconduct are to be reported to a leader and upon review will result in the member in question having their membership revoked. Leadership positions (namely Vice President and Executive Producer) are to be appointed by the incumbent president. The president can be impeached if all other members holding leadership and over half of the club's membership vote to do so. The role of Vice President or Executive Producer can be revoked by the President but only with the approval of the other leaders. The next president is decided by the incumbent before they graduate – if not specified, the Vice President of the highest seniority inherits the club.

What makes this activity unique?:
No other Stuyvesant club records and releases original music, or has the same connections with different aspects of art that the Stuyvesant Music Production Club has. We can help artists learn how to make music and even get their work out there, and teach collaboration in music by having a space for singers, musicians, producers, and instrumentalists alike to interact and work together. We strive to be a safe space for creativity, joy, and good music.

