Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Bridging Seas aims to unify the Asian diaspora by creating a platform for club members to embrace their roots and different lifestyles.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday, Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Directors meet once a week to plan events, pen pal meetings, and work on administrative tasks. General members meet once a month on varying days that conform to their schedule to attend Bridging Seas sponsored events and to have their pen pal evaluation. They will also need to text their penpal once a week and video call twice a week.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
At Stuyvesant Bridging Seas, our goal is to connect high schoolers from around the world by creating a platform for them to learn about each other's cultures and unique experiences. We envision a more compassionate, understanding world where students embrace their roots and different lifestyles through direct communication with international friends. Stuyvesant Bridging Seas is a branch of Bridging Seas that will work with the outside organization to facilitate a pen pal program for Stuyvesant students. The program matches students of the same ethnicity in different countries to become pen pals. Members will be expected to attend group check-in meetings and events that are held every few weeks and penpal evaluation meetings with their pen pal and a director at least once a month to evaluate how their international friendships are going. They will also be expected to text their pen pals once a week and video call them twice a week.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant Bridging Seas will give members the opportunity to make friends from all different backgrounds. Many Stuyvesant students might feel distant from their culture and heritage because of growing up in America. However, through participating in Stuyvesant Bridging Seas’s pen pal program, students can feel closer to their heritage through the cultivation of friendships with people that share the same culture as them and learn about how those friends celebrate their shared heritage in different ways that they are used to. Ultimately, being a certain ethnicity in one country is different from being the same ethnicity in another. Stuyvesant Bridging Seas will increase awareness among students who learn that people around the world are different and to celebrate those differences through their experiences with meeting new people that they would’ve never met without Stuyvesant Bridging Seas. Additionally, students will have an opportunity to practice learning a new language with their pen pal that will come from a different country. We currently offer Mandarin, Cantonese, Bengali, Korean, and Tamil, but we hope to expand to include more languages. A student can request for their pen pal to speak a certain language and for their conversations to be in a certain language so they can practice language learning.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The leadership positions include director of social media, director of outreach, and director of finance as well as many more. There will be an application process for those who want to be on the administrative end of the pen pal program. After applications are received, they will be reviewed and evaluated. Those who qualify will be asked for an interview. The best suited applicants will be selected based on their interview and application. The directors are expected to follow the director guidelines outlined by the Bridging Seas organization which includes attending all meetings, being active in group chats and private messages related to Bridging Seas within 48 hours of the messages being sent, and meeting assignment deadlines. Failure to meet the guidelines will result in strikes. After three strikes, there will be a vote by the board of directors on whether or not the student can keep their position. Leadership positions will be transferred through the years and there will be applications for occupied positions during a director’s senior year.

What makes this activity unique?:
We are unique because there are currently no programs in Stuyvesant that connect students to other high schoolers from around the world. Students don’t have access to opportunities to meet new people outside of their social sphere, let alone outside of New York City. Stuyvesant Bridging Seas provides an interactive and tolerant environment to meet new people and learn about other cultures. Rather than learning about people from other countries from a textbook or learning another language in a classroom setting, students can do that naturally through speaking and making meaningful connections with others their age.

