Mission Statement:
A chill community brought together by the shared love for Japanese media and hope to learn something new about it.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday, Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our schedule is generally Wednesdays and Fridays every week but we may make exceptions for holidays.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Japanese Media Club’s purpose is to discuss Japanese and Asian media such as, but not limited to: anime, manga, light novels, video games, music, and visual novels. Some members also love writing and drawing characters from these settings. There are meetings after school every Wednesday and Friday. Special meetings will be held to commemorate certain holidays. The club aims to create a casual setting for its members. To that end, members do not need to come to every meeting to be involved with the club. However, while members are not expected to bring anything to the table other than their interest in media from Japan or East Asia as a whole, the club does plan and host events that allow our members to utilize their creative skills to contribute to the overall atmosphere of meetings. There is also an active online community structured similarly to the in-school meetings. Members are freely encouraged to contribute ideas to the club and share their favorite media during meetings or anytime in the dedicated online community.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Japanese Media Club is a rapidly growing club where members can share their interests with others and learn more about Japanese media. While anime watchers and manga readers are generally shunned by the public and painted in a negative light, this subculture is gaining traction around the world. Japanese and other Asian studios tell beautiful stories worth experiencing, something recognized by publishing companies, consumers, and critics. Due to the club’s laid-back attitude and appreciation of all interests, the non-toxic environment will help members get through the hardships of Stuy life. Along with this, the club’s environment facilitates discussions to cater to those who are passionate about their interest and would like to share them with their fellow club members. As a club by students, for students, the club is built by its participants and every member supports one another academically and emotionally. In addition, the club is great for students taking Japanese class, as it provides a tool, for exploring Japanese media, to help these students learn and appreciate the language. This isn’t limited to just Japan, as the subculture is spreading to the rest of Asia as we often have discussions of other Asian works such as Chinese manhua and South Korean manhwa. The Japanese Media Club promotes a more culturally diverse appreciation of media among Stuyvesant students. We also act as a medium for people to broaden their horizons. Anyone is welcome to join the club at any time they please, even if they have never seen Japanese media before. We want our club members to be exposed to new Japanese media and hobbies they haven’t considered before.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
When a spot is available, the leaders will open up leadership applications for all members. The club presidents will then read through all of them and decide the best candidate(s) to fill the spot. The quality of the application AND the contribution of the applicant to the club will factor into their decision. Then the most suitable candidates are given interviews conducted by the current council. Their applications, interviews, and activity as a club member will determine who are the new leaders. The chosen member(s) will then be announced and the accepted applications will be shared for full transparency to the rest of the club members. Impeachment happens through in-person voting between council members as soon as a board member abuses their powers, is not working well with others or stops showing up to the club for a month unless they have a legitimate excuse for doing so. Legitimate excuses include having tutoring or being a tutor, SING! commitments, sports with mandatory practices, illness, lots of schoolwork, etc. 75% of council members (all 3 of the remaining council members) will have to be in agreement to impeach a fellow council member.

What makes this activity unique?:
Our club is unique because it serves as a place where fans of Japanese media can come together and enjoy things, such as anime together after school. Rather than focus only on just doing one thing, we allow and encourage our members to do things outside of just watching anime. We also actively engage with our members when we don’t have meetings to see what people want to do or how they’re holding up in general.

