Mission Statement:
The mission of this club is to explore the many fields in sports management and form connections with sports organizations and professional teams.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet on Wednesdays after-school but this could change depending on the preference or availability of our members.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The goal of this club is to delve into the ever-growing field of sports management and data technology and aim to establish partnerships between Stuyvesant and sports organizations/companies like Catapult, big brands like Under Armor, and professional sports teams such as the NY Red Bulls. This is a very welcoming club that encourages anyone who is keen on learning about any aspect of the sports world to join. Our meeting schedule will be flexible for members and we’ll cover everything from the basics in sports management to more specific fields like medicine or finance in sports. Based on everyone’s personal interests, we’ll assign members to project-specific teams with goals and deadlines. Weekly meetings will be more relaxed and fun as we’ll play games/competitions with prizes, bring in snacks, and watch movies together. Furthermore, we’re interested in setting up occasional speaker events with professionals to expose our members to the first-hand experience of the sports industry. Together, everyone at the club will learn from each other and foster an amazing environment while pursuing our goals to promote and improve Stuy’s sports culture.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This is a unique professional field with increasing opportunities. Sports management is crucial for every sport and is essential to a career in a sport related job. Data technology is a constantly growing field as technology improves and advances and the possibilities are always increasing. Data analysts collect information on athletes in the form of raw numbers, assess and analyze that data, and communicate their work in an effective manner to improve the overall performance of the athlete. By understanding this field of profession, many career paths will open up in the future and there will be constant opportunities in this ever-growing area of study. We’ll be exploring all kinds of sports and members will learn about various new concepts in math, technology, and sports management in an engaging manner. Also, the club will experience what it means to set short and long term goals and work towards achieving those goals as a group. As previously stated, we will be relatively flexible with attendance but we expect commitment from everyone who is devoted to the goals of the club. Overall, this club will stay interesting, engaging, and entertaining for all members. If anyone is interested in learning more about this topic, then they will definitely be able to work on their skills in this developing, welcoming community.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
This club will have one president, one vice president, a secretary, an outreach director, a sports medicine lead, a social and media director, and sport or project specific team leaders, with possibly more positions coming in the future. We encourage healthy competition for all positions. Obviously, while we do keep our schedule flexible for our members, attendance and participation will be observed. More devoted members who show passion and high commitment to the club and contribute constantly will be more seriously considered for leadership positions in the future. Members will be divided into specific groups based on sports or projects. Every group will have a lead who will manage everyone, organize responsibilities, and report overall progress to the club leaders. These group lead positions will be decided through a voting system. At the end of each semester, members will vote for who they believe should be team lead for the following cycle, and the person with the most votes will be given the responsibility. The president and vice presidents will oversee the overall club which includes setting up large scale events, reaching out to external organizations, and managing the club’s short and long term goals. A president, vice president, outreach director, or treasurer will be replaced once they have graduated from their senior year. At the end of the senior year of a club leader, a form will be sent out to all members and those interested may apply for these roles. After a written application and an interview, the new club leaders will be decided. Of course, in the unlikely event that any member or leader of the club behaves inappropriately, members can reach out to existing club leaders who will take immediate action to resolve the issue.

What makes this activity unique?:
There is currently no other club at Stuyvesant that focuses on this specific field. Like previously mentioned, it’s a continuously expanding area of research. As technology advances, the importance of data analysis in the sports world will grow. Thus, this club will be continuously evolving over time. While we do intend on keeping this extracurricular relatively light for our members, we’ll be prioritizing the short and long term goals of the club. As mentioned before, everyone will always be allowed to voice their opinions and make suggestions to club leaders which may include improvements that leaders could implement to make the club better, organizing an event, providing a presentation at a weekly meeting on a certain topic, and inviting guest speakers from external organizations.

