Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Girl Up is a club that educates students on female empowerment and topics relating to gender inequality.

What days does this organization meet?:
Tuesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will meet roughly once a week, as well as host 1-2 events per month. We meet at least 5 times a semester.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
In the world that we live in, disparities in women's education, lack of opportunities for women, and violence towards women has become increasingly prevalent. And many other women in many other third-world countries suffer the effects of these inequalities on a much larger scale. At Stuyvesant Girl Up, we educate people of all genders about the problems in this world that haunt women, and we use our knowledge to induce a change in our Stuyvesant community. Through fundraising, presentations, and more, our goal is to not only educate people, but to give women the confidence to change the world. Stuyvesant Girl Up is a branch of the larger organization Girl Up, which is partnered with the United Nations Foundation. Girl Up reaches women on a global scale, and has impacted over 50,000 girls throughout this process. If you want to make an impact in your community for the better, join us on our mission to equality and empowerment, one woman at a time.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
This activity will provide students with the opportunity to not only learn more about important issues that impact women, but also very helpful skills that are applicable for any scenario. Girl Up teaches skills of fundraising, organizing, advocating and storytelling. Oftentimes, when applying to leadership positions, students are expected to know and uphold the qualities of a successful leader. Many, however, may not have the experience or the natural ability to stand out and let their voices be heard. Girl Up not only provides real life scenarios for students to develop their skills, but also helps strengthen their ability to stand up and speak for themselves while still becoming an efficient manager. It will form a new generation of Stuyvesant students that not only understand and sympathize with the problems of women throughout the past and present, but will be able to create solutions of a future that’s brighter for everyone. Girl Up connects clubs throughout the world, ensuring an effective and strong foundation for all members. The organization has specific goals and rules in mind, making sure that every club, member and volunteer is actively involved, allowing for efficient communication and effective change. The large base of volunteers and members from across the globe provides a support system for the school that allows for connections to be developed in areas that are rarely reached. Without the leadership and unity behind the thousands of members, clubs like these that attempt to create change may lack the organization and planning needed. With Girl Up, results are seen, and the members know that their hard work is leading to a bright and hopeful future. Coming out of each club meeting, you will become a more informed, well-educated individual that has a lot of information about female rights and how to create a better and safer society for women.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The Stuyvesant Girl Up board includes at least five members, as required by the larger Girl Up entity. These roles include, but are not limited to, President, Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer, and Public Relations Officer. In order to foster a democracy in which everyone is represented, we will use a popular vote system to impeach any current leaders of the club or elect a member of the club to the board. We would be making polls after each meeting that not only gives the members a place to express their thoughts about the meeting, but also give the members a space to tell us if the leaders are doing a good job in their roles. With this information, the board can make changes accordingly. As Stuyvesant Girl Up gets larger and has more members, the board will collectively decide to add different positions to the board, like grade representatives, so that every grade and age feels included. In order for a member to have this leadership position, the candidates would first have to submit an official statement saying they will run for the position, and then deliver a speech to the club about what they would do with this position. Lastly, there would be a blind vote to ensure the fairness of the election. If someone proposes to impeach anyone in a leadership position, they will be required to provide a logical explanation for why they think the officer deserves to be removed from office. There must also be support from at least two other members. If so, members all vote for it, and if the popular vote passes, the person is expected to step down. This applies to all cabinet members, including vice president and president. No one is exempt from the protocols, even if they hold the highest leadership position. If someone in the cabinet resigns before the end of the school year, elections will be held for that position for any interested members to apply. If a student(s) on the cabinet graduates, elections will be held in the spring for the next year. They should maintain contact through emails and other means with other members of the club in an appropriate manner and time, and should participate in any and all club organized functions and activities unless otherwise stated. Nevertheless, participation is key to the success of developing effective and outstanding members of society.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant Girl Up is unique because it not only educates people about gender inequality, it teaches them how to become better leaders. Girl Up has four main categories of leadership tools: Advocacy, Fundraising, Storytelling, and Organizing. Through teaching these topics, you can become a more confident changemaker, and use these methods to develop your public speaking skills in general. Also, by being a part of this club, you are joining a large community of kids just like you who are dedicated to making a difference in the world.

