Mission Statement:
The Greek/Hellenic Club gives Stuyvesant students the opportunity to interact with and celebrate Greek culture.

What days does this organization meet?:
Monday

What is the meeting schedule?:
The club will meet every two weeks with the exception of holidays. Members only need to go to three meetings a month.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
The Hellenic Club is devoted to sharing all aspects of Greek life with both the Greek and non-Greek student population of Stuyvesant. Whether it be connecting with their heritage or learning more about a side interest, anyone can come to explore all that Greece has to offer. Each meeting will start off with a fun slideshow about the country’s history, starting off with exploring all the Greek islands and later on members can create their own informational slides. Additionally, everyone is welcome to share pictures and memories from their personal trips to Greece during any point in the meeting. Following the slides there will be activities and/or quizzes that take up the rest of the club’s duration. After the history portion, members will be encompassed by culture. For the film portion, we will play the old black and white comedy movies from Greece’s cinematic Golden Age and even readouts of ancient Greek plays. Members will also be introduced to basic Greek dance, such as sirtaki and kalamatiano, and play various board games like ταβλι (backgammon). We will also be exploring how the ancient Greeks laid the foundation for modern civilization by discussing architecture, medicine, philosophy, and more. And, of course, Greek gastronomy will be discussed frequently. Every day, members can bring any Greek food or snack item of their choice to the club. One day a year there will be the Food Day where every Greek brings a dish for the members to share.We also aim to march in the annual Greek Independence Day parade on 5th Avenue, members are highly encouraged to participate but one can opt out if necessary. The club serves as a community space that welcomes all socialization. By the end of the school year, everyone in the Hellenic club will be saying “γεια σου” to each other in the hallways.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant, in all its multiculturality, does not have that many Greek students, so our club serves as an opportunity for them to connect. Greek culture is incredibly rich and has permeated across the globe. This club is a community of people who are open to learning about Greece in entertaining ways and within this lies the opportunity to be immersed in the lesser known aspects of Greece like Greek film, Greek wildlife, and Greek history along with understanding its influence. Greeks will also be able to directly share their experiences with their culture to those that aren’t familiar with it. As we study science, discuss philosophy, analyze mathematics and learn about medicine, we often do not realize that most of the words and theoretical foundations of each are from ancient Greece. But why were the Ancient Greeks able to contribute so much? What led Winston Churchill in October 1940 to say, “Until now we used to say the Greeks fight like heroes. Now we shall say, “Heroes fight like Greeks!”? What is in it that shapes the Greek spirit even now and makes it so strong? By exploring the culture and history of Hellenism we will be inspired to also pursue excellence (“arete”), which is an integral part of Stuyvesant.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Two co-presidents elect two managers who are next in line to become co-presidents. If a member wants to make a slideshow for the introduction of a meeting it must be approved by the co-presidents. Generally slide making is an open ended system where anyone can make slides for a specific day but the majority will be made by the co presidents with alternating days of slide making. The removal of any member necessitates a vote. Initiation of a vote requires two members. ¾ of the club population is needed for a vote to pass and that member will be kicked out. If a co-president is removed, there must be a vote for a new president. If a manager is removed, the co-presidents just choose a new manager. All members are expected to abide by the typical school rules during the club and be respectful of every member. Hate speech will not be tolerated.

What makes this activity unique?:
There is no other club at Stuyvesant that is specifically about Greece and its people. The fifth floor bulletin board on the side of the escalator wall gives passing students a glimpse into the Hellenic Club that this school used to host. We aim to bring back and continue the tradition of the celebration of Greek culture that we as students have lost. Through our various events we will bring awareness to Stuyvesant student life of the seminal contributions made by ancient Greece together with the rich modern Greek culture.

