Mission Statement:
The Stuyvesant Linguistics Club aims to give space for students passionate about linguistics to further their interests and prepare for the NACLO.

What days does this organization meet?:
Wednesday

What is the meeting schedule?:
We will tentatively be meeting every Wednesday but this is subject to change based on the availability of members.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
During weekly meetings we will discuss crucial elements of linguistics and dive deeper into areas members find particularly interesting (ex: natural language processing or phonology). Prior knowledge of linguistics is not required. We will also make space each week to practice at least one problem for the North American Computational Linguistics Olympiad (NACLO). The concept of computational linguistics might be foreign to many, but problems on the NACLO can be thought of as linguistics related logic puzzles. As the test date approaches, we will spend more time reviewing practice problems, discussing tips for the test, and solving practice problems as a group. Students who do well in the open round of the NACLO will have an opportunity to take part in the invitational round with the greater goal of having the chance to represent the US in the International Linguistics Olympiad. Taking the NACLO is not required for participation in the Stuyvesant Linguistics Club.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
The Stuyvesant Linguistics Club gives Stuyvesant students the ability to learn about linguistics, a rich and diverse subject not commonly taught in high school, and to experience the ideas that the field has to offer. The club will spread awareness about what linguistics is, what linguists do, and why the field is important. We also aim to clear up misconceptions about linguistics as a subject. Although language is central to our daily lives, few people understand its inner workings and how it is used. Linguistics covers how our speech sounds are produced and combined to make words, how different languages form words and sentences with different structure, and how meaning is conveyed, among other things. The subject is relevant to and draws from psychology, sociology, computer science, math, neuroscience, philosophy, and other areas of study. We will educate the Stuyvesant community while giving students a place to have fun and discuss interesting topics. 

We also plan to discuss NACLO problems, which are unique puzzles requiring logical thinking, deductive reasoning, and creativity. We will give students an easy way to access the competition and an avenue to practice and work on problems with other students. Stuyvesant has performed well on the NACLO in the past and we hope to continue this trend.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
The main leadership role of the Stuyvesant Linguistics Club is president. The president role will be split among two co-presidents. Presidents for the following year will be selected in June of the prior school year. The qualifications for leadership are consistent participation in club meetings, familiarity with the NACLO (taking the test is recommended but not required), and demonstrated enthusiasm for linguistics. Presidents are expected to lead discussions and plan weekly activities. Presidents should be receptive and flexible to club member’s desires to learn about certain topics. Presidents are not expected to be experts in linguistics, we’re high school students after all, but they should be able to point club members in the right direction (i.e a trusted online source). In the event that club members or the faculty advisor believe that one of the presidents is not doing their job, for the remainder of the year or semester, the lasting president may appoint a club member to be the acting co-president. In the event both presidents are not doing their jobs, an emergency vote will be held to determine new leaders.

What makes this activity unique?:
The Stuyvesant Linguistics Club is the only club at Stuyvesant to focus on linguistics and the NACLO competition. We aim to provide a well rounded introduction to linguistics. In the past there has been a club solely focused on NACLO preparation which has since dissolved after its leaders graduated. We seek to build on this former club by adding a deep non-test prep linguistics component. This ensures that members will experience multiple facets of linguistics, and we hope to sufficiently offer an intriguing combination of test prep and conceptual linguistics.

