Mission Statement:
Stuyvesant Certamen Team & Stuy Classics studies classical culture for both competitions and enjoyment!

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Stuyvesant Certamen Team/Stuy Classics meet once a week on Wednesdays if there are upcoming events/competitions, and every two weeks if there are none.  Expect more than one weekly meeting in the days before events like Certamen.  Meetings will typically be 45 minutes.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Classics aims to explore the many branches of classical culture, through celebrating their holidays, practicing their language, studying mythology, and so much more! The club is both academic and recreational, as it offers resources for upcoming National Classical exams (i.e. Medusa Mythology, Roman Civilization, Vocabulary, etc.), and it also acts as a hub for all things Roman and Greek! All members need to do is show up with a love of (or remote interest in--we're not picky) classics. 

Stuyvesant Certamen Team prepares for and competes in certamina (Latin for "competition"). The club will hold practice certamina, so by showing up, you will be prepared for the real thing. The purpose of Certamen is to connect with students all across the nation through a shared interest in classical culture. Participants get to practice their own Latin skills under pressure, and they might even get a cool college tour out of it!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuy Classics will benefit the Stuyvesant Community by continuing its legacy of being an academic safe space for students of the humanities, specifically the branch of humanities that is classics. We allow students to pursue their interests of classics and mythology, and we also create a place for academic mentorship - if a student needs help with work from their Latin class, they can always come to a club meeting for that extra help. Outside of Latin class, the club's focus on classical history will prove helpful to students in their Stuyvesant history class. 

Because this club is student-led, and there are so many positions available, students can use their voices and gain leadership experience. By developing a "curriculum" for both certamen preparation and celebration days, student leaders not only gain a holistic knowledge of classics, but they also learn responsibilities, such as time management, how to keep up interest, and much more!

Stuyvesant Certamen Team benefits the Stuyvesant community by instilling the virtues of Certamen into the participants. Certamen teaches self-advocacy, collaboration, and diligence. Students get to compete alongside other passionate peers from across the nation! They get to appreciate their teammates’ strengths while honing their own. In their first year, the team placed at Yale and won at UPenn. Stuyvesant Certamen Team looks forward to bringing more success to Stuyvesant.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There are two consuls, or co-presidents. They will host meetings, proctor practice certamina, and develop the schedule for the club. Consuls are elected by their predecessors, with the approval of the faculty advisor. One can be elected by demonstrating commitment to the club and voicing their interest in the position to a current consul. Consuls hold their position until graduation or resignation. Still, succeeding consuls should be elected and primarily leading one semester before the term of the predecessor ends.

There are also 3-4 praetors, or chairs. Each one will specialize in one category of classical studies. The categories are Language, Mythology, History, and (if need be) Culture. The praetors are elected by showing proficiency in the category and voicing their interest to the members and consuls. They will compile resources (e.g. study guides, references) in their topic. Depending on their availability and willingness, they may also give a mini-lesson to the club or tutor in their topic. There will be a brief vote when instating a praetor. Praetors hold their role for one year.

If anyone in a leadership position fails to attend the majority of meetings in one semester, they will receive a warning. If their attendance stays the same or declines, they will be asked to resign. There will be zero tolerance for misconduct and/or disrespect from a leader or member. Depending on the circumstance, the position may be revoked or the person may be asked to leave. Anyone in the club may report an incident, but only the faculty advisor can carry out the consequences. The remaining consul and faculty advisor will elect a second consul. If both consuls are impeached, the club will hold a democratic election for two new consuls, with a majority-rules vote.

Members are expected to attend the majority of meetings, but it is not required. If a member is participating in an upcoming event, it is highly encouraged that they attend as many meetings leading up to the event as possible. Members are allowed at all times throughout the school year to try out the club. Members do not need to take Latin as their Stuyvesant language course in order to join.

What makes this activity unique?:
Stuyvesant Certamen Team/Stuy Classics is the only club at Stuyvesant that specializes in classical studies. In a STEM-oriented school, the club provides a focus on humanities for students who crave more of that in their school. Our student-led activities allow for a comprehensive and interesting perspective on classics. Whether you're someone who thrives on competition, or you love the Disney Hercules movie, there is something for you in our club, and you will be a valued part of our community.

