Mission Statement:
Stuy Knitting Club is dedicated to teaching people the art of knitting in a warm and open environment.

What days does this organization meet?:
Friday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule may vary but we will meet 1-2 times a month on Wednesdays

What is the purpose of this activity?:
Stuy Knitting Club's purpose is to teach and spread a love for yarn crafts by teaching members how to knit and providing a warm and open environment to destress. Knitting is a method for creating fabric by interlacing loops of yarn using two knitting needles. Knitting can be used to create a huge variety of fun projects including hats, scarves, bags, and even clothing. This club will teach members the basics of how to knit and how to start a fun knitting project, which may be worked on for several meetings depending on the project. We may also donate knitted garments to homeless charities in need. Members can choose to attend meetings as often as they'd like and the club is open to everyone regardless of skill level. At the end of this club, we hope that members can come away with new knowledge of how to knit and many happy memories of the friends they made along the way!

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Knitting is known for being an incredibly relaxing hobby, so members can use club time to destress after a long day. Furthermore, knitting is a great way to express your creativity and would be enjoyable to anyone who likes to work with their hands. It is also incredibly useful since you can either wear/use the end product or gift it to a loved one. Members will learn skills such as different stitches, casting on and off, and how to construct knitted garments like hats and scarves! By educating people on how to knit, SKC casts off the stereotype that knitting is an “old person hobby” by educating people on how to enjoy this hobby for themselves. In a world of mass-manufactured items, making your own pieces is a special and rewarding experience. For anyone interested in philanthropy, garments may also be donated to people in need such as those without a home so they too can also share in the warmth of handmade fabrics. Furthermore, while doing all of this, members also get the opportunity to meet new people and make friends with common interests. Ultimately, Stuy Knitting Club seeks to provide the students with a safe and supportive community where they can develop their knitting skills at their own pace.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
Meetings are scheduled and run by two co-presidents, who are currently the two founders. When people in leadership positions graduate or abdicate from their roles, new candidates will be appointed via a Google form where prospective applicants explain how they may contribute to the growth of the club along with either a written statement or portfolio of work to show competence in knitting, graphic design, or whatever the role entails. The current leadership team will review these applications, and the candidate with the most promising application will be chosen for the role. Positions may include president, vice president, graphic designer, outreach director, and more positions will be added if necessary. If a leader, especially the president or vice president, fails to attend three or more meetings without valid reasons or is otherwise found to be neglecting their duties, they will be removed from their position. Furthermore, if a leader receives three complaints of conduct, they will be eligible for removal based on a vote of ⅔ voting majority of club members.

What makes this activity unique?:
Besides being the only knitting club at Stuyvesant, Stuy Knitting Club provides all guidance necessary for members to learn the art of knitting. In a world of mass-manufactured items, knowing how to make your very own pieces is unique and valuable. Furthermore, SKC is a great way to meet like-minded people who also enjoy creativity, working with your hands, and yarn crafts. It is also a great way to express your creativity in a largely academic-based school and create meaningful gifts for yourself or your loved ones.

