Mission Statement:
Members will meet for weekly discussions and/or debates, which will either focus on a guest speaker or recent news that impacts AI ethics.

What days does this organization meet?:
Thursday

What is the meeting schedule?:
Our meeting schedule is weekly on Wednesday after school, we aim to meet at least three a month. With both virtual and in-person meetings.

What is the purpose of this activity?:
AI is disrupting the world as we know it– from medicine to computer science to the very jobs that will exist in the future, AI will undoubtedly affect every facet of our lives, regardless of whatever career one might venture down on. Therefore, it’s important to have a good grasp of the potential and dangers of AI, as this will help those with this knowledge to make informed decisions that will shape and improve their future. AI Ethics is the study of not only AI's moral code but also the moral questions facing us today. As AI continues to evolve ever more rapidly, these issues will become ever more important. In order to make the discussion more deep and approachable we will tackle these issues in smaller bites. Stuy AI Ethics will bring guest speakers (startup founders, AI operators at top companies and institutions) and thought pieces to generate discussion on cutting edge AI ethics issues and how we should be thinking of our future. Our main objective is that Stuy AI Ethics members go out into the world knowing how AI works, how the human creators decide on AI's evolution and that they have a framework to make ethical decisions when deciding how to use the technology. This knowledge can also help club members make more informed voting decisions that will have a substantial impact on their lives. This club will have weekly meetings. Members are expected to attend at least 1 meeting per month. In addition, all members are expected to be respectful of others' opinions and keep the discussion civil, as these discussions will be highly opinionated.

How does this activity benefit Stuyvesant?:
Stuyvesant has many clubs relating to the topic of AI. However, these clubs only discuss the "how" question, but not the "should'' question. Stuy AI Ethics will allow students from all backgrounds, whether it be people that wish to broaden their understanding of AI or non-CS students that want to understand how AI is affecting them and the risks that come with it. Through our meetings, club members will learn a framework of how to analyze the impact of AI into various fields, understanding the elements that go into it, and the ethical issues around AI (racism, sexism, political manipulation, misinformation, replacement of jobs, etc.) while having fun. It will also help students as they think about their future career paths and how to leverage AI in an ethical way. As Stuy AI ethics is discussion based, it will help students learn how to effectively debate their peers while remaining civil in a group discussion. It will also help students learn how to come to conclusions in a nuanced way. Being such a complex issue, our discussions will allow members to come up with unique ideas. Thus, this club will improve members’ abilities to effectively communicate their ideas and think of the world in a more wholesome way.

How does this activity appoint leaders?:
There are four leadership positions— two co-presidents and two vice presidents. If there is a vacancy in a leadership position, at the end of that semester, active club members can apply to be a vice-president. After the co-presidents review all the applications, candidates based on club attendance and quality of answers will be interviewed. Two candidates will be chosen as vice presidents. They will participate in leadership sessions and help brainstorm topics for the club to discuss. When a co-president graduates or resigns, their position will be open. The vice-presidents will take over as co-presidents and an application will be sent out for the new co-presidents to select their new vice presidents. If anyone has been in a leadership position for more than two years, a new vote will be held for that position. The vote must be held via a ranked-choice voting mechanism. The current member may be voted back in or replaced. Eligible voters will be members that have shown up for at least 60% of the club’s meetings within the last 5 months. Eligible voters will be first determined following the end of the first semester of the 2023 school year. Eligible candidates will be members that have shown up to 70% of the club's meetings within the last 5 months. For impeachment protocols, eligible voters may remove a leader with a 2/3rds majority. Co-presidents will be expected to attend most meetings and provide topic ideas and help connect with guest speakers, help lead discussion and train the vice-presidents. Vice-presidents are expected to attend leadership and club meetings, to prepare to take over as co-presidents.

What makes this activity unique?:
Although many clubs in Stuyvesant speak about how to create AI and how to code, we often forget about whether we should. This club will tackle these unique questions while creating a fun, warm and welcoming atmosphere. Through engaging and thought-provoking discussions, our club offers a unique space for Stuyvesant students to not only enhance their oratory skills but also to develop a sense of responsibility and empathy in their pursuit of AI and technology.

